   PER CURIAM.

   Pro se petitioner Sindram sought an extraordinary writ and permission to proceed in forma pauperis under this Court's Rule 39. In the past three, years, he has filed 43 petitions and motions with the Court. The legal bases offered in support of his request for extraordinary relief are identical to those presented in many of his prior petitions for certiorari or rehearing.

   Held: Sindram is denied in forma pauperis status in this and all future petitions for extraordinary relief, and the Clerk is directed not to accept any further petitions from him for such relief unless he pays the docketing fee required by this Court's Rule 38(a) and submits his petition in compliance with Rule 33. On its face, his petition does not even remotely satisfy the requirements for issuance of an extraordinary writ. Forcing the Court to devote its limited resources to processing frivolous and abusive petitions such as Sindram's compromises the goal of fairly dispensing justice. Pro se petitioners, who are not subject to the financial considerations that deter other litigants from filing frivolous petitions, have a greater capacity than most to disrupt the fair allocation of judicial resources. In re McDonald, 489 U. S. 180, 489 U. S. 184. The risk of abuse is particularly acute with respect to applications for extraordinary relief, which are not subject to any time limitations.
   Sindram remains free to file in forma pauperis requests for relief other than an extraordinary wit if he qualifies under Rule 39 and does not similarly abuse that privilege.

   Motion denied.

   PER CURIAM.

   Pro se petitioner Michael Sindram seeks an extraordinary writ pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1651, and requests permission to proceed in forma pauperis under this Court's Rule 39. This is petitioner's twenty-fourth filing before this Court in the October 1990 Term alone. Pursuant to our decision in In re McDonald, 489 U. S. 180 (1989), we deny the motion for leave to proceed in forma pauperis.

   Petitioner is no stranger to this Court. In the last three years, he has filed 42 separate petitions and motions, including

   Page 498 U. S. 178

   21 petitions for certiorari, 16 petitions for rehearing, and 2 petitions for extraordinary writs. [Footnote 1] Without recorded dissent, the Court has denied all of his appeals, petitions, and motions. Petitioner has nonetheless persisted in raising essentially the same arguments in an unending series of filings. Like the majority of petitioner's previous submissions to this Court, the instant petition relates to a speeding ticket that

   Page 498 U. S. 179

   petitioner received on May 17, 1987, in Dorchester County, Maryland. Having already challenged his conviction for speeding in five different state and federal courts on 27 prior occasions, petitioner now requests that the Court issue a writ compelling the Maryland Court of Appeals to expedite consideration of his appeal in order that the speeding ticket may be expunged from his driving record. The petition for mandamus was filed less than three months after he filed his appeal with the Maryland court.

   The mandamus petition alleges only that petitioner's "appeal in the lower court remains pending and unacted upon," and that "[a]s a direct and proximate cause of this dilatory action, Petitioner is unable to have his driving record expunged." Pet for Mandamus 2. The legal bases offered by petitioner for relief were presented in eight prior cert petitions, and are identical to the claims unsuccessfully presented in at least 13 of petitioner's rehearing petitions.

   As we made clear in McDonald, the granting of an extraordinary writ is, in itself, extraordinary. 489 U.S. at 489 U. S. 184-185; see Kerr v. United States District Court, 426 U. S. 394, 426 U. S. 402-403 (1976). On its face, this petition does not even remotely satisfy the requirements for issuance of an extraordinary writ. Petitioner has made no showing that "adequate relief cannot be had in any other form or from any other court" as required by this Court's Rule 20.1. He identifies no "drastic" circumstance to justify extraordinary relief (see Ex parte Fahey, 332 U. S. 258, 332 U. S. 259 (1947)). [Footnote 2] Instead, he merely recites the same claims that he has presented to this Court in over a dozen prior petitions. Petitioner's request that we consider these claims yet again is both frivolous and abusive.

   In McDonald, we denied in forMa pauperis status to a petitioner who filed a similarly nugatory petition for extraordinary writ. 489 U. S. 180. As we explained, the Court waives filing fees and costs for indigent individuals in order to promote the interests of justice. The goal of fairly dispensing justice, however, is compromised when the Court is forced to devote

   Page 498 U. S. 180

   its limited resources to the processing of repetitious and frivolous requests. Pro se petitioners have a greater capacity than most to disrupt the fair allocation of judicial resources, because they are not subject to the financial considerations -- filing fees and attorney's fees -- that deter other litigants from filing frivolous petitions. Id. at 489 U. S. 184. The risks of abuse are particularly acute with respect to applications for extraordinary relief, since such petitions are not subject to any time limitations and, theoretically, could be filed at any time, without limitation. In order to prevent frivolous petitions for extraordinary relief from unsettling the fair administration of justice, the Court has a duty to deny in forma pauperis status to those individuals who have abused the system. Under the circumstances of this case, we find it appropriate to deny in forma pauperis status to petitioner in this and all future petitions for extraordinary relief.

   Accordingly, if petitioner wishes to have his petition considered on its merits, he must pay the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) and submit a petition in compliance with Rule 33 of the Rules of this Court before January 28, 1991. The Clerk is directed not to accept any further petitions from petitioner for extraordinary writs pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §§ 1651(a), 2241, and 2254(a), unless he pays the docketing fee required by Rule 38(a) and submits his petition in compliance with Rule 33. Petitioner remains free under the present order to file in forma pauperis requests for relief other than an extraordinary writ, if he qualifies under this Court's Rule 39 and does not similarly abuse that privilege.

   It is so ordered.
