   Justice Sotomayor delivered the opinion of the Court.

   When a federal administrative agency first issues a rule interpreting one of its regulations, it is generally not required to follow the notice-and-comment rulemaking procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA or Act). See 5 U. S. C. 553(b)(A). The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit has nevertheless held, in a line of cases beginning with Paralyzed Veterans of Am. v. D. C. Arena L. P., 117 F. 3d 579 (1997), that an agency must use the APA s notice-and-comment procedures when it wishes to issue a new interpretation of a regulation that deviates significantly from one the agency has previously adopted. The question in these cases is whether the rule announced in Paralyzed Veterans is consistent with the APA. We hold that it is not.


   A

   The APA establishes the procedures federal administrative agencies use for rule making, defined as the process of formulating, amending, or repealing a rule. 551(5). Rule, in turn, is defined broadly to include statement[s] of general or particular applicability and future effect that are designed to implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy. 551(4).

   Section 4 of the APA, 5 U. S. C. 553, prescribes a three-step procedure for so-called notice-and-comment rulemaking. First, the agency must issue a [g]eneral notice of proposed rule making, ordinarily by publication in the Federal Register. 553(b). Second, if notice [is] required, the agency must give interested persons an opportunity to participate in the rule making through submission of written data, views, or arguments. 553(c). An agency must consider and respond to significant comments received during the period for public comment. See Citizens to Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v. Volpe, 401 U. S. 402, 416 (1971) ; Thompson v. Clark, 741 F. 2d 401, 408 (CADC 1984). Third, when the agency promulgates the final rule, it must include in the rule s text a concise general statement of [its] basis and purpose. 553(c). Rules issued through the notice-and-comment process are often referred to as legislative rules because they have the force and effect of law. Chrysler Corp. v. Brown, 441 U. S.
   281 303 (1979) (internal quotation marks omitted).

   Not all rules must be issued through the notice-and-comment process. Section 4(b)(A) of the APA provides that, unless another statute states otherwise, the notice-and-comment requirement does not apply to interpretative rules, general statements of policy, or rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice. 5 U. S. C. 553(b)(A). The term interpretative rule, or interpretive rule, [1] is not further defined by the APA, and its precise meaning is the source of much scholarly and judicial debate. See generally Pierce, Distinguishing Legislative Rules From Interpretative Rules, 52 Admin. L. Rev. 547 (2000); Manning, Nonlegislative Rules, 72 Geo. Wash. L. Rev. 893 (2004). We need not, and do not, wade into that debate here. For our purposes, it suffices to say that the critical feature of interpretive rules is that they are issued by an agency to advise the public of the agency s construction of the statutes and rules which it administers. Shalala v. Guernsey Memorial Hospital, 514 U. S.
   87, 99 (1995) (internal quotation marks omitted). The absence of a notice-and-comment obligation makes the process of issuing interpretive rules comparatively easier for agencies than issuing legislative rules. But that convenience comes at a price: Interpretive rules do not have the force and effect of law and are not accorded that weight in the adjudicatory process. Ibid.

   B

   These cases began as a dispute over efforts by the Department of Labor to determine whether mortgage-loan officers are covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA), 52Stat. 1060, as amended, 29 U. S. C. 201 et seq. The FLSA establishe[s] a minimum wage and overtime compensation for each hour worked in excess of 40 hours in each workweek for many employees. Integ-rity Staffing Solutions, Inc. v. Busk, 574 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 3). Certain classes of employees, however, are exempt from these provisions. Among these exempt individuals are those employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity . . . or in the capacity of outside salesman . . . . 213(a)(1). The exemption for such employees is known as the administrative exemption.

   The FLSA grants the Secretary of Labor authority to defin[e] and delimi[t] the categories of exempt admin-istrative employees. Ibid. The Secretary s current regu-lations regarding the administrative exemption were promulgated in 2004 through a notice-and-commentrulemaking. As relevant here, the 2004 regulations differed from the previous regulations in that they contained a new section providing several examples of exempt administrative employees. See 29 CFR 541.203. One of the examples is [e]mployees in the financial services industry, who, depending on the nature of their day-to-day work, generally meet the duties requirements for the administrative exception. 541.203(b). The financial services example ends with a caveat, noting that an employee whose primary duty is selling financial products does not qualify for the administrative exemption. Ibid.

   In 1999 and again in 2001, the Department s Wage and Hour Division issued letters opining that mortgage-loan officers do not qualify for the administrative exemption. See Opinion Letter, Loan Officers/Exempt Status, 6A LRR, Wages and Hours Manual 99:8351 (Feb. 16, 2001); Opinion Letter, Mortgage Loan Officers/Exempt Status, id., at 99:8249. (May 17, 1999). In other words, the Department concluded that the FLSA s minimum wage and maximum hour requirements applied to mortgage-loan officers. When the Department promulgated its current FLSA regulations in 2004, respondent Mortgage Bankers Association (MBA), a national trade association representing real estate finance companies, requested a new opinion interpreting the revised regulations. In 2006, the Department issued an opinion letter finding that mortgage-loan officers fell within the administrative exemption under the 2004 regulations. See App. to Pet. for Cert. in No. 13 1041, pp. 70a 84a. Four years later, however, the Wage and Hour
   Division again altered its interpretation of the FLSA s administrative exemption as it applied to mortgage-loan officers. Id., at 49a 69a. Reviewing the provisions of the 2004 regulations and judicial decisions addressing the administrative exemption, the Department s 2010 Administrator s Interpretation concluded that mortgage-loan officers have a primary duty of making sales for their employers, and, therefore, do not qualify for the administrative exemption. Id., at 49a, 69a. The Department accordingly withdrew its 2006 opinion letter, which it now viewed as relying on misleading assumption[s] and selective and narrow analysis of the exemption example in 541.203(b). Id., at 68a. Like the 1999, 2001, and 2006 opinion letters, the 2010 Administrator s Interpretation was issued without notice or an opportunity for comment.

   C

   MBA filed a complaint in Federal District Court challenging the Administrator s Interpretation. MBA contended that the document was inconsistent with the 2004 regulation it purported to interpret, and thus arbitrary and capricious in violation of 10 of the APA, 5 U. S. C. 706. More pertinent to this case, MBA also argued that the Administrator s Interpretation was procedurally in-valid in light of the D. C. Circuit s decision in Paralyzed Veterans, 117 F. 3d 579. Under the Paralyzed Veterans doctrine, if an agency has given its regulation a definitive interpretation, and later significantly revises that interpretation, the agency has in effect amended its rule, something it may not accomplish under the APA without notice and comment. Alaska Professional Hunters Assn., Inc. v. FAA, 177 F. 3d 1030, 1034 (CADC 1999). Three former mortgage-loan officers Beverly Buck, Ryan Henry, and Jerome Nickols subsequently intervened in thecase to defend the Administrator s Interpretation.[2]

   The District Court granted summary judgment to the Department. Mortgage Bankers Assn. v. Solis, 864 F. Supp. 2d 193 (DC 2012). Though it accepted the parties characterization of the Administrator s Interpretation as an interpretive rule, id., at 203, n. 7, the District Court determined that the Paralyzed Veterans doctrine was inapplicable because MBA had failed to establish its reliance on the contrary interpretation expressed in the Department s 2006 opinion letter. The Administrator s Interpretation, the District Court further determined, was fully supported by the text of the 2004 FLSA regulations. The court accordingly held that the 2010 interpretation was not arbitrary or capricious.[3]

   The D. C. Circuit reversed. Mortgage Bankers Assn. v. Harris, 720 F. 3d 966 (2013). Bound to the rule of Paralyzed Veterans by precedent, the Court of Appeals rejected the Government s call to abandon the doctrine. 720 F. 3d., at 967, n. 1. In the court s view, [t]he only question properly before it was whether the District Court had erred in requiring MBA to prove that it relied on the Department s prior interpretation. Id., at 967. Explaining that reliance was not a required element of the Paralyzed Veterans doctrine, and noting the Department s concession that a prior, conflicting interpretation of the 2004 regulations existed, the D. C. Circuit concluded that the 2010 Administrator s Interpretation had to be vacated.

   We granted certiorari, 573 U. S. __ (2014), and now reverse.


   The Paralyzed Veterans doctrine is contrary to the clear text of the APA s rulemaking provisions, and it improperly imposes on agencies an obligation beyond the maximum procedural requirements specified in the APA, Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 435 U. S. 519, 524 (1978) .

   A

   The text of the APA answers the question presented. Section 4 of the APA provides that notice of proposed rule making shall be published in the Federal Register. 5 U. S. C. 553(b). When such notice is required by the APA, the agency shall give interested persons an opportunity to participate in the rule making. 553(c). But 4 further states that unless notice or hearing is required by statute, the Act s notice-and-comment requirement does not apply . . . to interpretative rules. 553(b)(A). This exemption of interpretive rules from the notice-and-comment process is categorical, and it is fatal to the rule announced in Paralyzed Veterans.

   Rather than examining the exemption for interpretive rules contained in 4(b)(A) of the APA, the D. C. Circuit in Paralyzed Veterans focused its attention on 1 of the Act. That section defines rule making to include not only the initial issuance of new rules, but also repeal[s] or amend[ments] of existing rules. See 551(5). Because notice-and-comment requirements may apply even to these later agency actions, the court reasoned, allow[ing] an agency to make a fundamental change in its interpretation of a substantive regulation without notice and comment would undermine the APA s procedural framework. 117 F. 3d, at 586.

   This reading of the APA conflates the differing purposes of 1 and 4 of the Act. Section 1 defines what a rule-making is. It does not, however, say what procedures an agency must use when it engages in rulemaking. That is the purpose of 4. And 4 specifically exempts interpretive rules from the notice-and-comment requirements that apply to legislative rules. So, the D. C. Circuit correctly read 1 of the APA to mandate that agencies use the same procedures when they amend or repeal a rule as they used to issue the rule in the first instance. See FCC v. Fox Television Stations, Inc., 556 U. S. 502, 515 (2009) (the APA make[s] no distinction . . . between initial agency action and subsequent agency action undoing or revising that action ). Where the court went wrong was in failing to apply that accurate understanding of 1 to the exemption for interpretive rules contained in 4: Because an agency is not required to use notice-and-comment procedures to issue an initial interpretive rule, it is also
   not required to use those procedures when it amends or repeals that interpretive rule.

   B

   The straightforward reading of the APA we now adopt harmonizes with longstanding principles of our administrative law jurisprudence. Time and again, we have reiterated that the APA sets forth the full extent of judicial authority to review executive agency action for procedural correctness. Fox Television Stations, Inc., 556 U. S., at 513. Beyond the APA s minimum requirements, courts lack authority to impose upon [an] agency its own notion of which procedures are best or most likely to further some vague, undefined public good. Vermont Yankee, 435 U. S., at 549. To do otherwise would violate the very basic tenet of administrative law that agencies should be free to fashion their own rules of procedure. Id., at 544.

   These foundational principles apply with equal force to the APA s procedures for rulemaking. We explained in Vermont Yankee that 4 of the Act established the maximum procedural requirements which Congress was willing to have the courts impose upon agencies in conducting rulemaking procedures. Id., at 524. Agencies are free to grant additional procedural rights in the exercise of their discretion, but reviewing courts are generally not free to impose them if the agencies have not chosen to grant them. Ibid.

   The Paralyzed Veterans doctrine creates just such a judge-made procedural right: the right to notice and an opportunity to comment when an agency changes its interpretation of one of the regulations it enforces. That requirement may be wise policy. Or it may not. Regardless, imposing such an obligation is the responsibility of Congress or the administrative agencies, not the courts. We trust that Congress weighed the costs and benefits of placing more rigorous procedural restrictions on the issuance of interpretive rules. See id., at 523 (when Congress enacted the APA, it settled long-continued and hard-fought contentions, and enact[ed] a formula upon which opposing social and political forces have come to rest (internal quotation marks omitted)). In the end, Congress decided to adopt standards that permit agencies to promulgate freely such rules whether or not they are consistent with earlier interpretations. That the D. C. Circuit would have struck the balance differently does not permit
   that court or this one to overturn Congress contrary judgment. Cf. Law v. Siegel, 571 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 11).


   MBA offers several reasons why the Paralyzed Veterans doctrine should be upheld. They are not persuasive.

   A

   MBA begins its defense of the Paralyzed Veterans doctrine by attempting to bolster the D. C. Circuit s reading of the APA. Paralyzed Veterans, MBA contends, simply acknowledges the reality that where an agency significantly alters a prior, definitive interpretation of a regulation, it has effectively amended the regulation itself, something that under the APA requires use of notice-and-comment procedures. Brief for Respondent 20 21.

   The act of amending, however, in both ordinary parlance and legal usage, has its own meaning separate and apart from the act of interpreting. Compare Black s Law Dictionary 98 (10th ed. 2014) (defining amend as [t]o change the wording of or formally alter . . . by striking out, inserting, or substituting words ), with id., at 943 (defining interpret as [t]o ascertain the meaning and significance of thoughts expressed in words ). One would not normally say that a court amends a statute when it interprets its text. So too can an agency interpret a regulation without effectively amend[ing] the underlying source of law. MBA does not explain how, precisely, an interpretive rule changes the regulation it interprets, and its assertion is impossible to reconcile with the longstanding recognition that interpretive rules do not have the force and effect of law. See Chrysler Corp., 441 U. S., at 302, n. 31 (citing Attorney General s Manual on the Administrative Procedure Act 30, n. 3 (1947)); Skidmore
   v. Swift & Co., 323 U. S. 134, 140 (1944) .

   MBA s interpretation-as-amendment theory is particularly odd in light of the limitations of the Paralyzed Veterans doctrine. Recall that the rule of Paralyzed Veterans applies only when an agency has previously adopted an interpretation of its regulation. Yet in that initial interpretation as much as all that come after, the agency is giving a definite meaning to an ambiguous text the very act MBA insists requires notice and comment. MBA is unable to say why its arguments regarding revised interpretations should not also extend to the agency s first interpretation.[4]

   Next, MBA argues that the Paralyzed Veterans doctrine is more consistent with this Court s functional approach to interpreting the APA. Relying on Christensen v. Harris County, 529 U. S. 576 (2000) , and Shalala v. Guernsey Memorial Hospital, 514 U. S. 87 , MBA contends that we have already recognized that an agency may not avoid notice-and-comment procedures by cloaking its actions in the mantle of mere interpretation. Brief for Respondent 23 24.

   Neither of the cases MBA cites supports its argument. Our decision in Christensen did not address a change in agency interpretation. Instead, we there refused to give deference to an agency s interpretation of an unambiguous regulation, observing that to defer in such a case would allow the agency to create de facto a new regulation. 529 U. S., at 588. Put differently, Christensen held that the agency interpretation at issue was substantively invalid because it conflicted with the text of the regulation the agency purported to interpret. That holding is irrelevant to this suit and to the Paralyzed Veterans rule, which assesses whether an agency interpretation is procedurally invalid.

   As for Guernsey, that case is fully consistent with indeed, confirms what the text of the APA makes plain: Interpretive rules do not require notice and comment. 514 U. S., at 99. Sidestepping this inconvenient language, MBA instead quotes a portion of the Court s opinion stating that APA rulemaking would still be required if [an agency] adopted a new position inconsistent with . . . existing regulations. Id., at 100. But the statement on which MBA relies is dictum. Worse, it is dictum taken out of context. The regulations to which the Court referred were two provisions of the Medicare reimbursement scheme. And it is apparent from the Court s description of these regulations in Part II of the opinion that they were legislative rules, issued through the notice-and-comment process. See id., at 91 92 (noting that the disputed regulations were codified in the Code of Federal Regulations). Read properly, then, the cited passage from Guernsey merely means that an agency may only change its
   interpretation if the revised interpretation is consistent with the underlying regulations. Brief for Petitioners in No. 13 1052, p. 44.

   B

   In the main, MBA attempts to justify the Paralyzed Veterans doctrine on practical and policy grounds. MBA contends that the doctrine reinforces the APA s goal of procedural fairness by preventing agencies from unilaterally and unexpectedly altering their interpretation of important regulations. Brief for Respondent 16.

   There may be times when an agency s decision to issue an interpretive rule, rather than a legislative rule, is driven primarily by a desire to skirt notice-and-comment provisions. But regulated entities are not without recourse in such situations. Quite the opposite. The APA contains a variety of constraints on agency decisionmaking the arbitrary and capricious standard being among the most notable. As we held in Fox Television Stations, and underscore again today, the APA requires an agency to provide more substantial justification when its new policy rests upon factual findings that contradict those which underlay its prior policy; or when its prior policy has engendered serious reliance interests that must be taken into account. It would be arbitrary and capricious to ignore such matters. 556 U. S., at 515 (citation omitted); see also id., at 535 (Kennedy, J., concurring in part and concurring in judgment).

   In addition, Congress is aware that agencies sometimes alter their views in ways that upset settled reliance interests. For that reason, Congress sometimes includes in the statutes it drafts safe-harbor provisions that shelter regulated entities from liability when they act in conformance with previous agency interpretations. The FLSA includes one such provision: As amended by the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947, 29 U. S. C. 251 et seq., the FLSA provides that no employer shall be subject to any liability for failing to pay minimum wages or overtime compensation if it demonstrates that the act or omission complained of was in good faith in conformity with and in reliance on any written administrative regulation, order, ruling, approval, or interpretation of the Administrator of the Department s Wage and Hour Division, even when the guidance is later modified or rescinded. 259(a), (b)(1). These safe harbors will often protect parties from liability when an agency adopts an interpretation that
   conflicts with its previous position.[5]

   C

   MBA changes direction in the second half of its brief, contending that if the Court overturns the Paralyzed Veterans rule, the D. C. Circuit s judgment should nonetheless be affirmed. That is so, MBA says, because the agency interpretation at issue the 2010 Administrator s Interpretation should in fact be classified as a legislative rule.

   We will not address this argument. From the beginning, the parties litigated this suit on the understanding that the Administrator s Interpretation was as its name suggests an interpretive rule. Indeed, if MBA did not think the Administrator s Interpretation was an interpretive rule, then its decision to invoke the Paralyzed Veterans doctrine in attacking the rule is passing strange. After all, Paralyzed Veterans applied only to interpretive rules. Consequently, neither the District Court nor the D. C. Circuit considered MBA s current claim that the Administrator s Interpretation is actually a legislative rule. Beyond that, and more important still, MBA s brief in opposition to certiorari did not dispute petitioners assertions in their framing of the question presented and in the substance of their petitions that the Administrator s Interpretation is an interpretive rule. Thus, even assuming MBA did not waive the argument below, it has done so in this Court. See this Court s Rule 15.2;
   Carcieri v. Salazar, 555 U. S. 379 396 (2009).

   * * *

   For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit is reversed.

   It is so ordered.
