   JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion of the Court.

   The principal question presented by this case is whether a federal district court has jurisdiction to review a final order of the Secretary of Health and Human Services refusing to reimburse a State for a category of expenditures under its Medicaid program. All of the Courts of Appeals that have confronted this precise question have agreed that district courts do have jurisdiction in such cases. [Footnote 1] We implicitly


   answered the question in the same way when we accepted jurisdiction and decided the merits in Connecticut Dept. of Income Maintenance v. Heckler, 471 U. S. 524 (1985). Moreover, although the Medicaid program was established in 1965, the novel proposition that the Claims Court is the exclusive forum for judicial review of this type of agency action does not appear to have been advocated by the Secretary until this case reached the Court of Appeals. As we shall explain, the conclusion that the District Court had jurisdiction in this case is supported by the plain language of the relevant statutes, their legislative history, and a practical understanding of their efficient administration. Before turning to the legal arguments, however, it is appropriate to say a few words about the mechanics of the federal financial participation (FFP) in the States' Medicaid programs and the character of the issue decided by the District Court.


   In 1965, Congress authorized the Medicaid program by adding Title XIX to the Social Security Act, 79 Stat. 343. The program is

   "a cooperative endeavor in which the Federal Government provides financial assistance to participating States to aid them in furnishing health care to needy persons."

   Harris v. McRae, 448 U. S. 297, 448 U. S. 308 (1980). Subject to the federal standards incorporated in the statute and the Secretary's regulations, each participating State must develop its own program describing conditions of eligibility and covered services. At present, 18 different categories of medical assistance are authorized. See Connecticut Dept. of Income Maintenance v. Heckler, 471 U.S. at 471 U. S. 528-529.

   Although the federal contribution to a State's Medicaid program is referred to as a "reimbursement," the stream of revenue is actually a series of huge quarterly advance payments


   that are based on the State's estimate of its anticipated future expenditures. [Footnote 2] The estimates are periodically adjusted to reflect actual experience. Overpayments may be withheld from future advances or, in the event of a dispute over a disallowance, may be retained by the State at its option pending resolution of the dispute. [Footnote 3]


   Two procedures are available to the Secretary if he believes that a State's expenditures do not comply with either the Act or his regulations. First: if he concludes that the State's administration of its plan is in "substantial noncompliance" with federal requirements, he may initiate a compliance proceeding pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1316(a); in such a proceeding, he may order termination of FFP for entire categories of state assistance, or even (theoretically) the entire state program. [Footnote 4] Should the Secretary subsequently conclude that his initial determination was incorrect, the statute provides that "he shall certify restitution forthwith in a lump sum of any funds incorrectly withheld or otherwise denied." § 1316(c). A final order in a compliance proceeding is reviewable in the "United States court of appeals for the circuit in which such State is located." § 1316(a)(3). Second: the Secretary may "disallow" reimbursement for "any item or class of items." § 1316(d). "In general,
   . . . a disallowance represents an isolated and highly focused inquiry into a State's operation of the assistance program." [Footnote 5] The statute does not expressly provide for judicial review of a disallowance order. In several cases, a State has sought direct review of a disallowance order in a court of appeals, but, in each such case, the court has concluded that the State should proceed in the district court. See Illinois Dept. of Public Aid v. Schweiker, 707 F.2d 273 (CA7 1983), and cases cited therein.

   Massachusetts has participated in the Medicaid program continuously since 1966. One of the categories of assistance covered by the Massachusetts program is the provision of medical and rehabilitative services to patients in intermediate


   care facilities for the mentally retarded (ICF/MR services). [Footnote 6] These services include such matters as "training in "the activities of daily living" (such as dressing and feeding oneself),'" Massachusetts v. Heckler, 616 F.Supp. 687, 691 (Mass.1985) (citation omitted) (case below), and are performed jointly by personnel from the State Departments of Mental Health and Education, working pursuant to state mental health and "special education" laws. See Massachusetts v. Secretary of Health and Human Services, 816 F.2d 796, 798 (CA1 1987) (case below). Although the Secretary apparently would have regarded these services as covered had they been performed solely by the Massachusetts Department of Mental Health, his auditors classified them as uncovered educational services because they were performed in part by employees of the State Department of Education. [Footnote 7] On August 23, 1982, the Regional Administrator of the Department's


   Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA) notified the State that he had disallowed $6,414,964 in FFP for the period July 1, 1978, to December 31, 1980. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 97a. [Footnote 8] The Departmental Grant Appeals Board affirmed this decision on May 31, 1983. Id. at 53a. [Footnote 9]

   On August 26, 1983, the State filed a complaint in the Federal District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The State's complaint invoked federal jurisdiction pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1331, and alleged that the United States had waived its sovereign immunity through 5 U.S.C. § 702. The complaint requested declaratory and injunctive relief, and specifically asked the District Court to "set aside" the Board's order. [Footnote 10] While the case was pending, on August 20, 1984, the HCFA notified the State of a $4,908,994 FFP disallowance for the same category of ICF/MR services based on its audit of the period January 1, 1981, through June 30,


   1982. See App. to Pet. for Cert. 92a. On March 29, 1985, this second disallowance period was upheld by the Board. On June 5, 1985, the State filed a second complaint in District Court, seeking to overturn the second disallowance. Id. at 89a.

   On August 27, 1985, the District Court issued an opinion in the first disallowance case. It did not discuss the jurisdictional issue. On the merits, it held that the services in question were in fact rehabilitative, and that this classification was not barred by the fact that the Department of Education had played a role in their provision. Massachusetts v. Heckler, 616 F.Supp. 687 (Mass.1985) (case below). Its judgment, dated October 7, 1985, simply "reversed" the Board's decision disallowing reimbursement of the sum of $6,414,964 in FFP under the Medicaid program. App. to Pet. for Cert. 32a. On November 25, 1985, in a second opinion relying on the analysis of the first, the court reversed the Board's second disallowance determination. Massachusetts v. Heckler, 622 F.Supp. 266 (Mass.1985) (case below). It entered an appropriate judgment on December 2, 1985. App. to Pet. for Cert. 36a. That judgment did not purport to state what amount of money, if any, was owed by the United States to
   Massachusetts, nor did it order that any payment be made.

   The Secretary at first had challenged the District Court's subject matter jurisdiction, [Footnote 11] but later filed a memorandum stating that, as "a matter of policy, HHS has decided not to press the defense of lack of jurisdiction in this action." App. 20. [Footnote 12] In his consolidated appeal to the First Circuit, the Secretary


   reexamined this policy decision and decided to argue that the District Court did not have jurisdiction. The Court of Appeals accepted the Secretary's argument that the District Court could not order him to pay money to the State, but held that the District Court had jurisdiction to review the Board's disallowance decision, and to grant declaratory and injunctive relief. The Court explained its understanding of the difference between relief that was wholly retrospective in nature and relief that affected the future relationship between the parties as follows:

   "The disallowance decision at issue in this case, unlike that at issue in [Massachusetts v. Departmental Grant Appeals Bd. of Health and Human Services, 815 F.2d 778 (CA1 1987)], represents an ongoing policy that has significant prospective effect. The structure of the Medicaid program (in which the Secretary 'reimburses' the states in advance) makes it inevitable that disallowance decisions concern money past due. Yet the Secretary uses these decisions to implement important policies governing ongoing programs. Grant Appeals Board concerned the unusual situation in which the disallowance decision had no significant prospective effect; the challenge only concerned the money allegedly past due."

   "Here, in contrast, the interpretation of the Medicaid Act announced in the disallowance decision affects far more than any money past due. The special education exclusion defines the respective roles of the Commonwealth and HHS in a continuing program."

   "* * * *"

   "Prospective relief is important to the Commonwealth both because the ICF/MR program is still active and because the legal issues involved have ramifications that affect other aspects of the Medicaid program. What is at


   stake here is the scope of the Medicaid program, not just how many dollars Massachusetts should have received in any particular year."

   816 F.2d at 799 (emphasis in original).

   On the merits, the Court of Appeals agreed with the District Court that the Secretary could not lawfully exclude the rehabilitative services provided to the mentally retarded just because the State had labeled them (in part) "educational" services and had used Department of Education personnel to help provide them. It therefore affirmed the District Court's holding that the decisions of the Grant Appeals Board must be reversed because the Secretary's "special education exclusion" violated the statute. It held, however, that it could not rule that the services in dispute were reimbursable because it had "no evidentiary basis for doing so." Id. at 804. In sum, the Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's declaratory judgment, vacated the "money judgment" against the Secretary, and remanded to the Secretary for further determinations regarding whether the services are reimbursable. [Footnote 13]

   In his petition for certiorari, the Secretary asked us to decide that the United States Claims Court had exclusive jurisdiction over the State's claim. [Footnote 14] In its cross-petition, the


   State asked us to decide that the District Court had jurisdiction to grant complete relief. [Footnote 15] We granted both petitions. 484 U.S. 1003 (1988). The basic jurisdictional dispute is over the meaning of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. §§ 702, 704. [Footnote 16] The Secretary argues that § 702, as amended in 1976, does not authorize review because this is not an action "seeking relief other than money damages" within the meaning of the 1976 amendment to that section; he also argues that, even if § 702 is satisfied, § 704 bars relief because the State has an adequate remedy in the Claims Court. The State must overcome both arguments in order to prevail; we shall discuss them separately.


   Since it is undisputed that the 1976 amendment to § 702 was intended to broaden the avenues for judicial review of


   agency action by eliminating the defense of sovereign immunity in cases covered by the amendment, it is appropriate to begin by quoting the original text of § 702. Prior to 1976, it simply provided:

   "A person suffering legal wrong because of agency action, or adversely affected or aggrieved by agency action within the meaning of a relevant statute, is entitled to judicial review thereof. [Footnote 17]"

   In 1975, in a case seeking review of a disallowance decision by the Secretary of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit concluded that the decision was reviewable in the District Court. County of Alameda v. Weinberger, 520 F.2d 344. It would be difficult to question the fact that the disallowance decision was "agency action" that "adversely affected" the State, and that, accordingly, the State was "entitled to judicial review thereof."

   The 1976 amendment contains no language suggesting that Congress disagreed with the Ninth Circuit decision. The amendment added the following sentence to the already broad coverage of § 702:

   "An action in a court of the United States seeking relief other than money damages and stating a claim that an agency or an officer or employee thereof acted or failed to act in an official capacity or under color of legal authority shall not be dismissed nor relief therein be denied on the ground that it is against the United States or that the United States is an indispensable party. [Footnote 18] "


   There are two reasons why the plain language of this amendment does not foreclose judicial review of the action brought by the State challenging the Secretary's disallowance decision. First, insofar as the complaint sought declaratory and injunctive relief, it was certainly not an action for money damages. Second, and more importantly, even the monetary aspects of the relief that the State sought are not "money damages" as that term is used in the law.

   Neither a disallowance decision nor the reversal of a disallowance decision is properly characterized as an award of "damages." Either decision is an adjustment -- and, indeed, usually a relatively minor one -- in the size of the federal grant to the State that is payable in huge quarterly installments. Congress has used the terms "overpayment" and "underpayment" to describe such adjustments in the open account between the parties, [Footnote 19] and the specific agency action that reverses a disallowance decision is described as "restitution" in the statute. [Footnote 20]

   Our cases have long recognized the distinction between an action at law for damages -- which are intended to provide a victim with monetary compensation for an injury to his person, property, or reputation -- and an equitable action for specific relief -- which may include an order providing for the reinstatement of an employee with back pay, or for "the recovery of specific property or monies, ejectment from land, or injunction either directing or restraining the defendant officer's actions." Larson v. Domestic & Foreign Commerce Corp., 337 U. S. 682, 337 U. S. 688 (1949) (emphasis added). The fact that a judicial remedy may require one party to pay money to another is not a sufficient reason to characterize the relief as "money damages." Thus, we have recognized that relief


   that orders a town to reimburse parents for educational costs that Congress intended the town to pay is not "damages":

   "Because Congress undoubtedly did not intend this result, we are confident that, by empowering the court to grant 'appropriate' relief, Congress meant to include retroactive reimbursement to parents as an available remedy in a proper case."

   "In this Court, the Town repeatedly characterizes reimbursement as 'damages,' but that simply is not the case. Reimbursement merely requires the Town to belatedly pay expenses that it should have paid all along, and would have borne in the first instance had it developed a proper IEP."

   School Committee of Burlington v. Department of Education of Massachusetts, 471 U. S. 359, 471 U. S. 370-371 (1985).

   Judge Bork's explanation of the plain meaning of the critical language in this statute merits quotation in full. In his opinion for the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Maryland Dept. of Human Resources v. Department of Health and Human Services, 246 U.S.App.D.C. 180, 763 F.2d 1441 (1985), [Footnote 21] he wrote:

   "We turn first to the question whether the relief Maryland seeks is equivalent to money damages. Maryland asked the district court for a declaratory judgment and for injunctive relief"

   "enjoin[ing] defendants from reducing funds otherwise due to plaintiffs, or imposing any sanctions on such funds for alleged Title XX violations. . . ."

   "We are satisfied that the relief Maryland seeks here is not a claim for money damages, although it is a claim that would require the payment of money by the federal government. "


   "We begin with the ordinary meaning of the words Congress employed. The term 'money damages,' 5 U.S.C. § 702, we think, normally refers to a sum of money used as compensatory relief. Damages are given to the plaintiff to substitute for a suffered loss, whereas specific remedies 'are not substitute remedies at all, but attempt to give the plaintiff the very thing to which he was entitled.' D. Dobbs, Handbook on the Law of Remedies 135 (1973). Thus, while in many instances an award of money is an award of damages, '[o]ccasionally a money award is also a specie remedy.' Id. Courts frequently describe equitable actions for monetary relief under a contract in exactly those terms. See, e.g., First National State Bank v. Commonwealth Federal Savings & Loan Association, 610 F.2d 164, 171 (3d Cir.1979) (specific performance of contract to borrow money); Crouch v. Crouch, 566 F.2d 486, 488 (5th Cir.1978) (contrasting lump-sum damages for breach of promise to pay monthly support payments with an order
   decreeing specific performance as to future installments); Joyce v. Davis, 539 F.2d 1262, 1265 (10th Cir.1976) (specific performance of a promise to pay money bonus under a royalty contract)."

   "In the present case, Maryland is seeking funds to which a statute allegedly entitles it, rather than money in compensation for the losses, whatever they may be, that Maryland will suffer or has suffered by virtue of the withholding of those funds. If the program in this case involved in-kind benefits, this would be altogether evident. The fact that in the present case it is money, rather than in-kind benefits that pass from the federal government to the states (and then, in the form of services, to program beneficiaries), cannot transform the nature of the relief sought -- specific relief, not relief in the form of damages. Cf. Clark v. Library of Congress, 750 F.2d 89, 104 n. 33 (D.C. Cir.1984) (dictum) (describing


   an action to compel an official to repay money improperly recouped as 'in essence, specific relief')."

   Id. at 185, 763 F.2d at 1446 (emphasis in original) (citation omitted).

   In arguing for a narrow construction of the 1976 amendment -- which was unquestionably intended to broaden the coverage of § 702 -- the Secretary asks us to substitute the words "monetary relief" for the words "money damages" actually selected by Congress. Given the obvious difference in meaning between the two terms and the well-settled presumption that Congress understands the state of existing law when it legislates, see, e.g., Cannon v. University of Chicago, 441 U. S. 677, 441 U. S. 696-697 (1979), only the most compelling reasons could justify a revision of a statutory text that is this unambiguous. Nevertheless, we have considered the Secretary's argument that the legislative history of § 702 supports his reading of the amendment.

   The 1976 amendment to § 702 was an important part of a major piece of legislation designed to remove "technical" obstacles to access to the federal courts. [Footnote 22] The statute was the culmination of an effort generated by scholarly writing and bar association work in the early 1960's. [Footnote 23] Although the Department of Justice initially opposed the proposal, it eventually reversed course and offered its support. [Footnote 24] We shall comment


   first on the legislative materials that relate directly to the bill that passed in 1976, and then refer to the 1970 Hearing on which the Government places its principal reliance.

   Two propositions are perfectly clear. The first concerns the text of the amendment. There is no evidence that any legislator in 1976 understood the words "money damages" to have any meaning other than the ordinary understanding of the term as used in the common law for centuries. No one suggested that the term was the functional equivalent of a broader concept such as "monetary relief," and no one proposed that the broader term be substituted for the familiar one. [Footnote 25] Each of the Committee Reports repeatedly used the term "money damages"; [Footnote 26] the phrase "monetary relief" was used in each Report once, and only in intentional juxtaposition and distinction to "specific relief," indicating that the drafters had in mind the time-honored distinction between damages and specific relief. [Footnote 27] There is no support in that history


   for a departure from the plain meaning of the text that Congress enacted.

   Second, both the House and Senate Committee Reports indicate that Congress understood that § 702, as amended, would authorize judicial review of the "administration of Federal grant-in-aid programs." [Footnote 28] The fact that grant-in-aid programs were expressly included in the list of proceedings in which the Committees wanted to be sure the sovereign immunity defense was waived is surely strong affirmative evidence that the members did not regard judicial review of an agency's disallowance decision as an action for damages.

   If we turn to the 1970 Hearing and the earlier scholarly writings, we find that the terms "monetary relief" and "money damages" were sometimes used interchangeably. That fact is of only minimal significance, however, for several reasons. First, given the high caliber of the scholars who testified, it seems obvious that, if they had intended the exclusion for proceedings seeking "money damages" to encompass all proceedings seeking any form of monetary relief, they would have drafted their proposal differently. Second, they cited cases involving challenges to federal grant-in-aid programs as examples of the Government's reliance on a sovereign immunity defense that should be covered by the proposed legislation. [Footnote 29] Third, the case that they discussed at


   the greatest length in the 1970 Hearing was Larson v. Domestic & Foreign Commerce Corp., 337 U. S. 682 (1949). [Footnote 30] Although they criticized the reliance on sovereign immunity in that opinion, they made no objection to its recognition of the classic distinction between the recovery of money damages and "the recovery of specific property or monies." Id. at 337 U. S. 688.

   Judge Bork's summary of the legislative history is especially convincing:

   "Neither the House nor Senate Reports (there was no Conference Report) intimates that Congress intended the term 'money damages' as a shorthand for 'whatever forms of monetary relief would be available under the Tucker Act.' To the contrary, the federal sovereign immunity case law, which the Reports discuss at length, see H.R.Rep. No. 1656, supra, at 5-8; S.Rep. No. 996, 94th Cong., 2d Sess. 4-8 (1976), suggests that Congress would have understood the recovery of specific monies to be specific relief in this context. See, e.g., Larson v. Domestic & Foreign Commerce Corp., 337 U. S. 682, 337 U. S. 688 (1949) (contrasting 'damages' and 'specific relief' and including in the latter category 'the recovery of specific property or monies')."

   "Moreover, while reiterating that Congress intended 'suits for damages' to be barred, both Reports go on to say that"

   "the time [has] now come to eliminate the sovereign immunity defense in all equitable actions for specific relief against a Federal agency or officer acting in an official capacity."

   "H.R.Rep. No. 1656, supra, at 9; S.Rep. No. 996, supra, at 8, U.S. Code Cong. & Admin. News 1976, p. 6129 (emphasis added). That sweeping declaration strongly suggests that Congress intended to authorize equitable suits for specific monetary


   relief as we have defined that category. This inference is made virtually conclusive by the fact that both Reports then enumerate several kinds of cases in which the sovereign immunity defense had continued to pose an undesirable bar to consideration of the merits: that listing includes cases involving 'administration of Federal grant-in-aid programs.' H.R.Rep. No. 1656, supra, at 9; S.Rep. No. 996, supra, at 8, U.S. Code Cong. & Admin. News 1976, p. 6129. Specific relief in cases involving such programs will, of course, often result in the payment of money from the federal treasury. It seems to us, then, that the legislative history supports the proposition that Congress used the term 'money damages' in its ordinary signification of compensatory relief. We therefore hold that Maryland's claims for specific relief, albeit monetary, are for 'relief other than money damages,' and therefore within the waiver of sovereign immunity in section 702."

   246 U.S.App.D.C. at 186-187, 763 F.2d at 1447-1448.

   Thus, the combined effect of the 1970 Hearing and the 1976 legislative materials is to demonstrate conclusively that the exception for an action seeking "money damages" should not be broadened beyond the meaning of its plain language. The State's suit to enforce § 1396b(a) of the Medicaid Act, which provides that the Secretary "shall pay" certain amounts for appropriate Medicaid services, is not a suit seeking money in compensation for the damage sustained by the failure of the Federal Government to pay as mandated; rather, it is a suit seeking to enforce the statutory mandate itself, which happens to be one for the payment of money. [Footnote 31] The fact that the


   mandate is one for the payment of money must not be confused with the question whether such payment, in these circumstances, is a payment of money as damages or as specific relief. Judge Bork's explanation bears repeating:

   "[The State] is seeking funds to which a statute allegedly entitles it, rather than money in compensation for the losses, whatever they may be, that [the State] will suffer or has suffered by virtue of the withholding of those funds. If the program in this case involved in-kind benefits, this would be altogether evident. The fact that, in the present case, it is money, rather than in-kind benefits, that pass from the federal government to the states (and then, in the form of services, to program beneficiaries) cannot transform the nature of the relief sought -- specific relief, not relief in the form of damages."

   246 U.S.App.D.C. at 185, 763 F.2d at 1446.


   The Secretary's novel submission that the entire action is barred by § 704 must be rejected, because the doubtful and limited relief available in the Claims Court is not an adequate substitute for review in the District Court. A brief review of the principal purpose of § 704 buttresses this conclusion.

   Section 704 was enacted in 1946 as § 10(c) of the APA. In pertinent part, it provided:


   "Every agency action made reviewable by statute and every final agency action for which there is no other adequate remedy in any court shall be subject to judicial review."

   60 Stat. 243. [Footnote 32]

   Earlier drafts of what became § 704 provided that

   "only final actions, rules, or orders, or those for which there is no other adequate judicial remedy . . . shall be subject to such review,"

   or that

   "[e]very final agency action, or agency action for which there is no other adequate remedy in any court, shall be subject to judicial review. [Footnote 33]"

   Professor Davis, a widely respected administrative law scholar, has written that § 704 "has been almost completely ignored in judicial opinions," [Footnote 34] and has discussed § 704's bar to judicial review of agency action when there is an "adequate remedy" elsewhere as merely a restatement of the proposition that "[o]ne need not exhaust administrative remedies that are inadequate." [Footnote 35]


   However, although the primary thrust of § 704 was to codify the exhaustion requirement, the provision as enacted also makes it clear that Congress did not intend the general grant of review in the APA to duplicate existing procedures for review of agency action. As Attorney General Clark put it the following year, § 704 "does not provide additional judicial remedies in situations where the Congress has provided special and adequate review procedures." [Footnote 36] At the time the APA was enacted, a number of statutes creating administrative agencies defined the specific procedures to be followed in reviewing a particular agency's action; for example, Federal Trade Commission and National Labor Relations Board orders were directly reviewable in the regional courts of appeals, [Footnote 37] and Interstate Commerce Commission orders were subject to review in specially constituted three-judge district courts. [Footnote 38] When Congress enacted the APA to provide a general authorization for
   review of agency action in the district courts, it did not intend that general grant of jurisdiction to duplicate the previously established special statutory procedures relating to specific agencies.

   The exception that was intended to avoid such duplication should not be construed to defeat the central purpose of providing a broad spectrum of judicial review of agency action.


   In our leading opinion explaining the significance of this provision, Justice Harlan wrote:

   "The Administrative Procedure Act provides specifically not only for review of '[a]gency action made reviewable by statute,' but also for review of 'final agency action for which there is no other adequate remedy in a court,' 5 U.S.C. § 704. The legislative material elucidating that seminal act manifests a congressional intention that it cover a broad spectrum of administrative actions, and this Court has echoed that theme by noting that the Administrative Procedure Act's 'generous review provisions' must be given a 'hospitable' interpretation."

   Abbott Laboratories v. Gardner, 387 U. S. 136, 387 U. S. 140-141 (1967) (footnote omitted). A restrictive interpretation of § 704 would unquestionably, in the words of Justice Black,

   "run counter to § 10 and § 12 of the Administrative Procedure Act. Their purpose was to remove obstacles to judicial review of agency action under subsequently enacted statutes. . . ."

   Shaughnessy v. Pedreiro, 349 U. S. 48, 349 U. S. 51 (1955).

   The Secretary argues that § 704 should be construed to bar review of the agency action in the District Court because monetary relief against the United States is available in the Claims Court under the Tucker Act. This restrictive -- and unprecedented -- interpretation of § 704 should be rejected, because the remedy available to the State in the Claims Court is plainly not the kind of "special and adequate review procedure" that will oust a district court of its normal jurisdiction under the APA. [Footnote 39] Moreover, the availability of


   any review of a disallowance decision in the Claims Court is doubtful.

   The Claims Court does not have the general equitable powers of a district court to grant prospective relief. Indeed, we have stated categorically that "the Court of Claims has no power to grant equitable relief." [Footnote 40] As the facts of this case illustrate, the interaction between the State's administration of its responsibilities under an approved Medicaid plan and the Secretary's interpretation of his regulations may make it appropriate for judicial review to culminate in the entry of declaratory or injunctive relief that requires the Secretary to modify future practices. We are not willing to assume, categorically, that a naked money judgment against the United States will always be an adequate substitute for prospective relief fashioned in the light of the rather complex ongoing relationship between the parties. [Footnote 41]

   Moreover, in some cases, the jurisdiction of the Claims Court to entertain the action, or perhaps even to enter a specific money judgment against the United States, would be at least doubtful. [Footnote 42] Regarding the former dilemma: if a State


   elects to retain the amount covered by a disallowance until completion of review by the Grant Appeals Board, see 42 U.S.C. § 1396b(d)(5); n 3, supra, it will not be able to file suit in the Claims Court until after the disallowance is recouped from a future quarterly payment. It is no answer to suggest that a State will not be harmed as long as it retains the money, because its interest in planning future programs


   for groups such as the mentally retarded who must be trained in ICF's may be more pressing than the monetary amount in dispute. Such planning may make it important to seek judicial review -- perhaps in the form of a motion for a preliminary injunction -- as promptly as possible after the agency action becomes final. A district court has jurisdiction both to grant such relief and to do so while the funds are still on the State's side of the ledger (assuming administrative remedies have been exhausted); the Claims Court can neither grant equitable relief, supra at 487 U. S. 905, nor act in any fashion so long as the Federal Government has not yet offset the disallowed amount from a future payment. See § 1396b(d)(5); n 3, supra. [Footnote 43] Regarding the latter problem: given the fact that the quarterly payments of federal money are actually advances against expenses that have not yet been incurred by the State, it is arguable that a dispute concerning the status of the open account is not
   one in which the State can claim an entitlement to a specific sum of money that the Federal Government owes to it. [Footnote 44]

   Further, the nature of the controversies that give rise to disallowance decisions typically involve state governmental


   activities that a district court would be in a better position to understand and evaluate than a single tribunal headquartered in Washington. We have a settled and firm policy of deferring to regional courts of appeals in matters that involve the construction of state law. [Footnote 45] That policy applies with special force in this context, because neither the Claims Court nor the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit has any special expertise in considering the state law aspects of the controversies that give rise to disallowances under grant-in-aid programs. It would be nothing less than remarkable to conclude that Congress intended judicial review of these complex questions of federal-state interaction to be reviewed in a specialized forum such as the Court of Claims. More specifically, it is anomalous to assume that Congress would channel the review of compliance decisions to the regional courts of appeals, see 42 U.S.C. § 1316(a)(3); supra, at 487 U. S. 885, and yet intend that the
   same type of questions arising in the disallowance context should be resolved by the Claims Court or the Federal Circuit. [Footnote 46]


IV

   We agree with the position advanced by the State in its cross-petition -- that the judgments of the District Court should have been affirmed in their entirety -- for two independent reasons. First, neither of the District Court's orders in this case was a "money judgment," as the Court of Appeals held. The first order (followed in the second, see 487 U. S. supra) simply "reversed" the

   "decision of the Department Grant Appeals Board of the United States Department of Health and Human Services in Decision No. 438 (May 31, 1983). [Footnote 47]"

   It is true that it describes Decision No. 438 as one that had disallowed reimbursement of $6,414,964 to the State, but it did not order that amount to be paid, and it did not purport to be based on a finding that the Federal Government


   owed Massachusetts that amount, or indeed, any amount of money. Granted, the judgment tells the United States that it may not disallow the reimbursement on the grounds given, and thus it is likely that the Government will abide by this declaration and reimburse Massachusetts the requested sum. But to the extent that the District Court's judgment engenders this result, this outcome is a mere byproduct of that court's primary function of reviewing the Secretary's interpretation of federal law.

   Second, even if the District Court's orders are construed in part as orders for the payment of money by the Federal Government to the State, such payments are not "money damages," see 487 U. S. supra, and the orders are not excepted from § 702's grant of power by § 704, see 487 U. S. supra. That is, since the orders are for specific relief (they undo the Secretary's refusal to reimburse the State), rather than for money damages (they do not provide relief that substitutes for that which ought to have been done), they are within the District Court's jurisdiction under § 702's waiver of sovereign immunity. See 487 U. S. supra. Further, the District Court's jurisdiction to award complete relief in a case such as this is not barred by the possibility that a purely monetary judgment may be entered in the Claims Court. See 487 U. S. supra. [Footnote 48]


   The question whether the District Court had the power to enter the order it did is governed by the plain language of 5 U.S.C. § 706. [Footnote 49] It seems perfectly clear that, as "the reviewing court," the District Court had the authority to "hold unlawful and set aside agency action" that it found to be "not in accordance with law." As long as it had jurisdiction under § 702 to review the disallowance order of the Secretary, it also had the authority to grant the complete relief authorized by § 706. Neither the APA nor any of our cases required the Court of Appeals to split this case into two parts. [Footnote 50]


   In his explanation to Congress of the basic purpose of what became the 1976 amendment to the APA, Dean Cramton endorsed the view that

   "'today, the doctrine [of sovereign immunity] may be satisfactory to technicians, but not at all to persons whose main concern is with justice. . . . The trouble with the sovereign immunity doctrine is that it interferes with consideration of practical matters, and transforms everything into a play on words.' [Footnote 51]"

   In our judgment, a fair consideration of "practical matters" supports the conclusion that the district courts and the regional courts of appeals have jurisdiction to review agency action of the kind involved in this case, and to grant the complete relief authorized by § 706. Accordingly, the Court of Appeals should have affirmed the judgments of the District Court in their entirety.

   Thus, we affirm in part, reverse in part, and remand to the Court of Appeals for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

   It is so ordered.
