   JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the Court.

   This case, an original action brought by the States of Oklahoma and Texas against the State of New Mexico, arises out of a dispute over the interpretation of various provisions of the Canadian River Compact (Compact), which was ratified by New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas in 1951 and consented to by Congress by the Act of May 17, 1952, 66 Stat. 74. Each State has filed exceptions to a report submitted by the Special Master (Report) appointed by this Court.



   The Canadian River [Footnote 1] is an interstate river which rises along the boundary between southeastern Colorado and northeastern New Mexico, in the vicinity of Raton, New Mexico. From its headwaters, the Canadian River flows south to the Conchas Dam in New Mexico, then generally east for 65 river miles to the Ute Reservoir in New Mexico, and then into the Texas Panhandle. After traversing the panhandle, the river flows into Oklahoma, where it eventually empties into the Arkansas River, a tributary of the Mississippi.

   In the late 1930s, Congress authorized, and the Corps of Engineers completed, the construction of Conchas Dam on the mainstream of the Canadian River, approximately 30 miles northwest of Tucumcari, New Mexico. Congress also authorized the Tucumcari Project, a federal reclamation project designed to irrigate over 42,000 acres of land and serve the municipal and industrial needs of Tucumcari, New Mexico. The project lands are situated southeast of Conchas Dam and are served by the Conchas Canal, which diverts water from Conchas Reservoir. The project was completed in 1950.

   In 1949, the Texas congressional delegation proposed that Congress authorize a massive Canadian River reclamation project, known as the Sanford Project because of its proximity to Sanford, Texas, for the purpose of serving the municipal and industrial requirements of 11 Texas cities in the Texas panhandle region. Legislation to authorize the Sanford Project was introduced in the House of Representatives, along with a bill authorizing New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas to negotiate an interstate compact to equitably apportion


   the waters of the Canadian River. The legislation authorizing the States to enter into an interstate compact was passed by Congress, and the Canadian River Compact Commission was created. The Compact Commission consisted of one commissioner from each State and one federal representative. Each commissioner and the federal representative had the assistance of engineering advisors, a group collectively known as the Engineering Advisory Committee. This committee submitted several proposals to the Compact Commission. The final draft of the Canadian River Compact was presented on December 6, 1950, and was signed on that day by the members of the Compact Commission. [Footnote 2]


   Congress enacted legislation authorizing the Sanford Project on December 29, 1950, but as a result of an amendment proposed by the New Mexico delegation, the bill specifically provided that actual construction of the project could not commence until Congress consented to the Compact. See 64 Stat. 1124, 43 U.S.C. § 600c(b). That consent was granted on May 17, 1952, 66 Stat. 74, and the Sanford Dam, creating Lake Meredith Reservoir with a capacity of over 1.4 million acre-feet of water, was completed in 1964. Lake Meredith is approximately 165 river miles east of Ute Reservoir, and is located north of Amarillo, Texas. During the 1950's, New Mexico selected a site on the Canadian River mainstream approximately one mile west of Logan, New Mexico, and about 45 miles downstream from Conchas Dam for the construction of Ute Dam and Reservoir. Construction of Ute Dam was completed in 1963 with an initial storage capacity of 109,600 acre-feet. In 1982, New Mexico began construction to enlarge the
   reservoir, and in 1984 the enlargement was completed, giving Ute Reservoir a capacity of 272,800 acre-feet. In 1984, the Reservoir's actual capacity to store water was 246,617 acre-feet, the remaining capacity being occupied by silt. The Special Master estimated that, because of additional silting, reservoir storage capacity was reduced to 241,700 acre-feet in 1987 and currently is about 237,900 acre-feet. Report of Special Master 16-17.


   As early as 1982, Oklahoma and Texas expressed concern that the enlargement of Ute Reservoir would violate the 200,000 acre-feet limitation in Article IV(b) of the Compact. See n 2, supra. All attempts by the Commission to resolve this budding dispute were unsuccessful, in large part because any Commission action requires a unanimous vote, and New Mexico would not agree to the interpretation of the Compact proposed by Oklahoma and Texas. This litigation followed, with Oklahoma and Texas contending that Article IV(b) of the Compact imposes a 200,000 acre-feet limit on New Mexico's constructed reservoir capacity available for conservation storage downstream from Conchas Dam, and that capacity for the so-called "desilting pool" portion of Ute Reservoir was not exempt from the Article IV(b) limitation, because it was not allocated solely to "sediment control "

   In the spring of 1987, while the case was pending, the portion of the Canadian River above Conchas Dam flooded, and a sizeable quantity of water, approximately 250,000 acre-feet, spilled over Conchas Dam. This was the first major spill over Conchas Dam since 1941-1942, a spill which predated the Compact. New Mexico caught approximately 60 percent of the spill in Ute Reservoir, which filled the reservoir to its capacity, and the remaining 40 percent flowed on down the river. As of June 23, 1988, Ute Reservoir contained approximately 232,000 acre-feet of stored water, of which some 180,900 acre-feet was alleged by New Mexico to be flood water spilled from Conchas Dam earlier in 1987. Report of Special Master 47.

   After New Mexico refused to count the spill waters stored in Ute Reservoir for purposes of the 200,000 acre-feet limitation in Article IV(b), Texas and Oklahoma filed a supplemental complaint in this case, claiming that, if the 200,000 acre-feet limitation applies to actual stored water, then water spilling over Conchas Dam or seeping back from Tucumcari project constitutes "waters which originate . . . below Conchas Dam" within the meaning of Article IV(b). New


   Mexico disputed all of these contentions, and argued that water which first enters the river above Conchas Dam is not subject to the Article IV(b) limitation even if it is stored in Ute Reservoir, or anywhere else in New Mexico below Conchas Dam.

   We referred Texas' and Oklahoma's complaint and supplemental complaint in this original case to a Special Master. 484 U.S. 1023 (1988); 488 U.S. 989 (1988). After considering voluminous evidence, the written submissions of the States, twice hearing extended oral argument on the issues, and circulating a draft report to the States for their comments, the Master filed a Report on October 15, 1990, making the following recommendations relevant to our decision in this case:

   (1) Article IV(b) imposes a limitation on stored water, not physical reservoir capacity.

   (2) Waters originating in the Canadian River Basin above Conchas Dam, but reaching the mainstream of the Canadian River below Conchas Dam as a result of spills or releases from Conchas Dam or seepage and return flow from the Tucumcari Project, are subject to the Article IV(b) limitation.

   (3) The issue whether and to what extent the water in the "desilting pool" in Ute Reservoir should be exempt from the Article IV(b) limitation should be referred to the Canadian River Compact Commission for good faith negotiations and possible resolution. The referral would be without prejudice to later invoke the Court's jurisdiction if the issue cannot be resolved within one year.

   (4) If the foregoing recommendations are approved, New Mexico will have been in violation of Article IV(b) of the Compact since 1987, and the case should be returned to the Special Master for determination of any injury to Oklahoma and Texas and recommendations for appropriate relief. Report of Special Master 24-25.

   The Master also recommended that the Court use this case to articulate various jurisdictional prerequisites and procedural


   guidelines for application in future interstate compact litigation. Id. at 26-34. [Footnote 3] We ordered the Master's Report to be filed, and set a briefing schedule, 498 U.S. 956 (1990), and heard oral argument on the States' exceptions to the Master's Report. We now address those exceptions in turn.


   Oklahoma has filed an exception to the Master's recommendation in Part VI of his Report that the Article IV(b) limitation on "conservation storage" be interpreted to apply only to the quantity of water New Mexico actually stores at Ute Reservoir for conservation purposes. As of 1984, Ute Reservoir had a storage capacity of approximately 272,800 acre-feet, although it is conceded that not all of that capacity is chargeable as existing for "conservation storage." Some of the capacity is for purposes excluded from the Compact definition of "conservation storage," such as for sediment control. Oklahoma contends that the term "conservation storage" should be interpreted to apply to the physical capacity of reservoirs located below Conchas Dam, a view which, if adopted, would result in a finding that New Mexico has been in violation of Article IV(b) since at least 1984, when the enlargement of Ute Reservoir was completed.

   The Special Master conceded, as do we, that Oklahoma's suggested interpretation of Article IV(b)'s conservation storage limitation finds some support in the plain language of the Compact definition of "conservation storage" and in the language of Article IV(b) itself. The Compact defines "conservation storage" in pertinent part as "that portion of the capacity of


   reservoirs available for the storage of water" for various purposes and "excludes any portion of the capacity of reservoirs" allocated to other purposes. Art. II(d) (emphasis added). Likewise, Article IV(b) refers to "the amount of conservation storage in New Mexico available for impounding these waters" (emphasis added). However, other provisions in the Compact appear to focus on stored water, not reservoir capacity. For example, Article V sets forth an elaborate formula for determining the amount of water Texas may actually impound at any one time; Article VII provides that the "Commission may permit New Mexico to impound more water than the amount set forth in Article IV" (emphasis added); and Article VIII requires each State to "furnish to the Commission at intervals designated by the Commission accurate records of the quantities of water stored in reservoirs pertinent to the administration of this Compact" (emphasis added).

   We agree with the Special Master that nothing on the face of the Compact indicates a clear intention to treat the New Mexico "conservation storage" limitation differently than the Texas stored water limitation, and we see no compelling justification for doing so. In fact, several early drafts of the Compact uniformly referred to stored water, and only in the final draft did the "conservation storage" language appear in Article IV(b). There is nothing in the contemporaneous memoranda and statements of the compact commissioners and their staffs to explain exactly why this change was made, nor is there anything which indicates an intent to draw a distinction between the limitations placed on New Mexico and those placed on Texas. Rather, as the Master pointed out, it is most probable that the terms "stored water," "storage," and "conservation storage capacity" were being used loosely and interchangeably by the drafters and their staffs. See Report of Special Master 42-43.

   There is no obvious reason why Texas and Oklahoma would have wanted to restrict New Mexico's ability to increase reservoir capacity below Conchas Dam, particularly in light of the fact that larger reservoirs actually promote one of the


   purposes stated in Article I of the Compact, which is to capture and conserve as much of the Canadian River's flood flows as possible, flows which might otherwise be dissipated and therefore wasted. Furthermore, as New Mexico points out, sedimentation alone would constantly reduce New Mexico's storage capacity below the 200,000 limit, forcing New Mexico to repeatedly either build new reservoir capacity or enlarge existing reservoirs. Either of those options would be extremely expensive, and Oklahoma points to no persuasive evidence that the drafters of the Compact intended that New Mexico should bear such a burden. We overrule Oklahoma's exception to Part VI of the Master's Report.


   New Mexico has excepted to Part VII of the Master's Report, in which the Master recommended that water spilling or released from Conchas Dam, as well as return flow and seepage from the Tucumcari Project, be subject to Article IV(b)'s 200,000 acre-feet limitation on conservation storage, if the water is impounded in Ute Dam or other downstream dams in New Mexico. New Mexico argues that the Compact does not impose any restriction on New Mexico's impoundment of these waters, because they originate above Conchas Dam, and Article IV(a) gives New Mexico the "free and unrestricted use of all waters originating in the drainage basin of Canadian River above Conchas Dam" (emphasis added). Texas and Oklahoma counter that the word "originating," as used in Article IV of the Compact, simply means "entering." See Tr. of Oral Arg. 29. In Texas' and Oklahoma's view, all the conservation storage waters which end up in Ute Reservoir, whether they spill over or are released through Conchas Dam, or seep back
   from the Tucumcari Project, are subject to the 200,000 acre-feet conservation storage limitation of Article IV(b), because they "originate" below Conchas Dam. The Special Master recommended that such waters be subject to the Article IV(b) limitation because he concluded that


   the intent of the Compact drafters was to give New Mexico free and unrestricted use of waters originating in the Canadian River drainage basin above Conchas Dam only if the waters were "stored, used or diverted for use at or above Conchas Dam." Report of Special Master 59.

   New Mexico asserts that the word "originating," as used in Article IV, has a plain, unambiguous meaning, and that the waters "originating" below Conchas Dam referred to in Article IV(b) do not include any waters "originating" above Conchas. But we do not agree that the meaning of the word is as plain as New Mexico suggests. As the Special Master pointed out, a literal reading of the language of Article IV(a) could not have been intended, since such a reading would include all of the waters originating in the drainage basin of the Canadian River above Conchas Dam, including all of the waters in tributaries that arise in Colorado, such as the Vermejo River, and would purport to foreclose any claim that Colorado had in the waters arising in that State. This would be an extremely implausible reading in light of the fact that Colorado was not a party to the Compact.

   New Mexico's answer is that the language of Article IV(a), giving it the right to all Canadian River waters originating above Conchas, does not mean what it says, and should be interpreted to include only those waters in the drainage basin "originating" in New Mexico, a limitation that appeared in earlier drafts of the Compact and that was reflected in the legislative history of the Act approving the Compact. S.Rep. No. 1192, 82d Cong., 2d Sess, 2 (1952). But as Texas points out, New Mexico nevertheless claims the right to use and store all of the water in the Canadian River that is found in New Mexico above Conchas Dam, even though some of it admittedly has its source in Colorado, not in New Mexico, a result unsupported by New Mexico's present interpretation of the language in Article IV(a). Likewise, if literally read, Article IV(a) would retain New Mexico's right to water having a source above Conchas even if the water escaped its


   grasp and flowed into Texas; but New Mexico concedes that the Article does not go so far, if for no other reason than the fact that Article V gives Texas the right to all of the water found in the Canadian River in Texas, subject to a storage limitation.

   In light of the above ambiguity, which the dissent refuses to recognize, it is fairly arguable that, if by virtue of its right to water originating in the drainage basin in New Mexico above Conchas Dam, New Mexico also has the right to use and store water in the Canadian River in New Mexico that originated in Colorado, Article IV(b) should be construed in the same way: any water found in the river below Conchas, including spills, seepage and return flow from Tucumcari, must be deemed to have originated below Conchas, and be subject to the 200,000 acre-feet storage limitation. In effect, this was the conclusion the Special Master came to after examining in detail the purpose and negotiating history of the Compact. [Footnote 4]


   The Master reviewed considerable evidence regarding the drafters' intent as to the meaning of Article IV, and concluded that New Mexico's suggested interpretation was not consistent


   with the available evidence. [Footnote 5] Although the question is not free from doubt, we agree with the Master. Contrary to New Mexico's assertions, there is substantial evidence that, in drafting the Compact, Texas and Oklahoma agreed that storage limitations were not necessary for waters above Conchas Dam because the waters in that basin had been fully developed.

   "[T]he negotiators recognized that full development had already been made of all waters of Canadian River originating above Conchas Dam, and that, accordingly, there


   would be no purpose in placing a limitation upon any increase in the amount of storage of such waters."

   Joint Statement of Agreed Material Facts D. 34. The evidence strongly suggests that the negotiators believed that any future water development along the Canadian River in New Mexico would necessarily occur below Conchas Dam, and that 200,000 acre-feet of storage rights would be ample for New Mexico's purposes below Conchas Dam. Indeed, in a letter to the governor, New Mexico's Compact Commissioner, John Bliss, specifically stated that "storage capacity for all projects which may be feasible below Conchas will probably not equal the 200,000 acre-foot storage limit." [Footnote 6] Plaintiffs' Exh. 30, p. 1.


   The central purpose of the Compact was to settle the respective rights of the States to Canadian River water, and the Compact and its negotiating history plainly show that the parties agreed that no more than 200,000 acre-feet of storage rights would satisfy all of New Mexico's future needs for water below Conchas Dam. Had they thought more was needed, the limit would have been higher. Under these circumstances, we see no persuasive reason why Texas and Oklahoma would have agreed to let New Mexico impound substantially more than 200,000 acre-feet of water for conservation storage purposes below Conchas Dam simply because some of the water first entered the river above Conchas Dam. Nor do we believe that the evidence supports the conclusion that New Mexico's negotiator intended that result either.

   In our view, the Compact's ambiguous use of the term "originating" can only be harmonized with the apparent intent of the Compact drafters if it is interpreted so that waters which spill over or are released from Conchas Dam, or which return from the Tucumcari Project, are considered waters originating below Conchas Dam. This view is strengthened by the fact that both the Bureau of Reclamation in studying the Sanford Project, and the engineers advising the Compact commissioners during negotiations, included outflows and spills from Conchas Dam in their estimates of the water supply available to Texas. [Footnote 7] See Joint Statement of Agreed Material


   Facts C.7, D.16. New Mexico points out that the States and the Master agree that nothing in Article IV would prevent New Mexico from simply enlarging Conchas Reservoir to capture all of the waters flowing into the river above Conchas Dam. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 6. That reading of the Compact is correct, but we fail to see how it refutes Texas' and Oklahoma's interpretation of the Compact. New Mexico apparently has never attempted to enlarge Conchas Reservoir, because doing so is economically infeasible, and there is nothing in the evidence to suggest that the drafters contemplated that New Mexico would seek to enlarge Conchas Reservoir in the future. Instead, as noted above, the Compact drafters were operating on the assumption that New Mexico had fully developed its uses of water above Conchas Dam, and would not need additional water for above Conchas uses. It does not necessarily follow that New Mexico's entitlement under Article IV(a) to all of the Canadian River water it can use from
   Conchas Reservoir gives New Mexico the unrestricted right to store that water at any point downstream from Conchas Dam. Any right New Mexico has to water spilling over Conchas Dam arises by virtue of Article IV(b), under which New Mexico may store for its use 200,000 acre-feet of water originating below Conchas Dam. [Footnote 8]


   It is worth noting the Special Master's observation that New Mexico's construction of Article IV, if accepted, would have a deleterious impact on the water supply to the Sanford Project, and hence would

   "run counter to the Congressional intention in conditioning funding of the Sanford Project on execution of the Compact and in subsequently approving the Compact."

   Report of Special Master 57. Congress had been informed that the Project would rely in part on water arriving in Texas in the mainstream of the Canadian. Yet New Mexico's version of the Compact would, as a practical matter, permit it to prevent any and all water entering the river above Conchas from ever reaching Texas, whether by enlarging Ute Reservoir or building additional facilities, and at the same time to impound at Ute Dam most, if not all, of the principal tributary inflow below Conchas.

   All of New Mexico's needs for water above Conchas and for the Tucumcari project are fully satisfied. No one suggests otherwise. It is also plain that it was agreed in the Compact that 200,000 acre-feet of water storage would be adequate to satisfy New Mexico's needs for water below the Conchas. That allocation was indeed generous. Since the signing of the Compact, there have been no developments in the area below Conchas which require substantial amounts of water for consumptive uses. According to the Special Master, slightly over 1,000 acre-feet for such purposes has been sold from Ute Dam since 1963. Id. at 68. New Mexico is entitled to 200,000 acre-feet of conservation storage below Conchas Dam, which the Compact anticipated would take care of any future developments in the area below Conchas Dam. As we construe the Compact, if New Mexico has at any time stored more than that amount, it was not entitled to do so. Any water stored in excess of that amount should have been


   allowed to flow through the Ute Dam, to be put to use by the downstream States, rather than impounded in New Mexico.

   Accordingly, we overrule New Mexico's exceptions to Part VII of the Report. [Footnote 9]

IV

   In Part VIII of his report, the Master recommended that this Court remand to the Canadian River Commission the question whether certain water stored in Ute Reservoir, water which New Mexico has designated a "desilting pool," [Footnote 10] is exempt from the Article IV(b) limitation on New Mexico's conservation storage because it allegedly serves a "sediment control" purpose within the meaning of Article II(d). Oklahoma and Texas except to this recommendation, arguing that there is sufficient evidence in the record to make a final determination on this issue, that the water in the desilting pool should be counted towards the Article IV(b) limitation, and that it is neither appropriate nor practical to refer the


   matter to the Commission. The Master acknowledged that the record developed in this case probably was sufficient to permit him to decide this issue, Report of Special Master 99-100, but he declined to address it until after the States had first made some attempt, via the Canadian River Commission, to negotiate a settlement. We sustain Texas' and Oklahoma's exception to Part VIII of the Master's Report insofar as those States argue that the matter should not be referred to the Commission.

   "Where the States themselves are before this Court for the determination of a controversy between them, neither can determine their rights inter sese, and this Court must pass upon every question essential to such a determination. . . ."

   Kentucky v. Indiana, 281 U. S. 163, 281 U. S. 176-177 (1930). It is true that the Court has "often expressed [a] preference that, where possible, States settle their controversies by mutual accommodation and agreement,'" Arizona v. California, 373 U. S. 546, 373 U. S. 564 (1963) (quoting Colorado v. Kansas, 320 U. S. 383, 320 U. S. 392 (1943), and Nebraska v. Wyoming, 325 U. S. 589, 325 U. S. 616 (1945)), but the Court "does have a serious responsibility to adjudicate cases where there are actual, existing controversies" between the States over the waters in interstate streams. 373 U.S. at 373 U. S. 564. There is no doubt that such a dispute exists in this case, Oklahoma and Texas have properly invoked this Court's jurisdiction, and there is no claim that the "desilting pool" issue has not been properly presented. Thus, we see no legal basis for the Master's refusing to decide the question, and instead sending it to the Commission. Thus, we remand the "desilting pool" question to the Master
   for such further proceedings as may be necessary and a recommendation on the merits. [Footnote 11]


V

   The States' exceptions to the Special Master's Report are overruled except for Oklahoma's and Texas' challenge to the Master's recommendation that the "desilting pool" issue be referred to the Canadian River Commission, which is sustained in part. [Footnote 12] The case is remanded to the Master for such further proceedings and recommendations as may be necessary.

   So ordered.
