   JUSTICE BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the Court.

   The question for decision is whether a union

   "restrain[s] or coerce[s] . . . an employer in the selection of his representatives for the purposes of collective bargaining or the adjustment of grievances,"

   29 U.S.C. § 158(b)(1)(B), when it disciplines a supervisor union member who does not participate in collective bargaining or adjust contractual grievances, and whose employer has not entered into a collective bargaining agreement with the union.


   Royal Electric (Royal) and Nutter Electric (Nutter) are members of the National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA). In May 1981, the last in a series of collective bargaining agreements between NECA and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 340 (IBEW or Union), expired. Negotiations for a new agreement failed shortly thereafter, and the Union struck all NECA employers, including Royal and Nutter.


   The strike lasted several months. On September 15, 1981, the Union sent NECA a disclaimer of interest "in representing . . . the employees of the multi-[employer] bargaining unit previously established," 271 N.L.R.B. 995, 996 (1984); NECA accepted the disclaimer the following day. The Union then filed petitions seeking to represent the employees of 17 NECA members in single-employer units. Neither then nor thereafter did the Union file a petition to represent the employees of Royal or Nutter.

   The Union's attempt to represent the employees of single-employer units was unsuccessful. On October 1, 1981, NECA signed an agreement with the National Association of Independent Unions (NAIU). Royal and Nutter adopted NECA's agreement with NAIU.

   The unfair labor practice charges in this case arise from the Union's imposition of fines on two of its members, Albert Schoux and Ted Choate, who work as supervisors for Royal and Nutter respectively. In the fall of 1982, internal Union charges were filed against Schoux and Choate, alleging that they had violated the Union's constitution by working for employers that did not have a collective bargaining relationship with the Union. [Footnote 1] Each was found guilty as charged; Schoux was fined $8,200 and Choate $6,000.

   Royal and Nutter then filed unfair labor practice charges against the IBEW, alleging that, by fining Schoux and Choate, the Union had restrained or coerced Royal and Nutter "in the selection of [their] representatives for the purposes of collective bargaining or the adjustment of grievances" in violation of § 8(b)(1)(B) of the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA or Act), as amended, 61 Stat. 140, 29 U.S.C. § 158(b)(1)(B). The Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) agreed. First, he found that Schoux and Choate were


   supervisors within the meaning of § 2(11) of the NLRA. [Footnote 2] He then relied on the so-called "reservoir doctrine" to find that they were also part of the narrower category of "[employer] representatives for [the purposes of] collective bargaining or grievance adjustment" covered by § 8(b)(1)(B), despite the fact that neither performed such duties. 271 N.L.R.B. at 997 and 998. Under the reservoir doctrine, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB or Board) expansively interprets the phrase "representativ[e] for the purposes of collective bargaining or the adjustment of grievances" to include all supervisors within the meaning of § 2(11), on the ground that

   "such individuals form the logical 'reservoir' from which the employer is likely to select his representatives for collective bargaining or grievance adjustment."

   Id. at 997. The fact that a supervisor might be selected to perform these tasks in the future is therefore sufficient to classify him or her as a § 8(b)(1)(B) representative.

   The ALJ further determined that, even aside from the reservoir doctrine, Schoux was a § 8(b)(1)(B) employer representative because he "granted employees time off and resolved personal complaints or problems regarding job assignments." Ibid. The ALJ relied on the Board's broad interpretation of the term grievances "as used in both Section 2(11) and Section 8(b)(1)(B) so as to include not only contractual grievances, but also personal grievances." Ibid.

   On this reasoning, the ALJ held that Schoux and Choate acted as grievance adjustment or collective bargaining representatives for their employers under § 8(b)(1)(B). He found that

   ""the reasonably foreseeable and intended effect of [the


   Union's] discipline is that the supervisor-member will cease working'" for the nonsignatory employer, "thereby depriving the employer of the grievance adjustment services of his chosen representative.""

   Id. at 1000 (quoting Plumbers Local 364, 254 N.L.R.B. 1123, 1125 (1981)). Consequently, the ALJ decided that, by fining Schoux and Choate for working for Royal and Nutter, the Union had restrained and coerced the employers in the selection of representatives for grievance adjustment and collective bargaining. 271 N.L.R.B. at 1000 and 1002.

   Finally, the ALJ rejected the Union's argument that no violation of § 8(b)(1)(B) could occur when a union did not have a collective bargaining relationship with the employer at the time the supervisor-member was disciplined. IBEW argued that a union which neither represented nor intended to represent the employees of a company had no incentive to influence the company's choice of representative, or to affect the performance of grievance adjustment or collective bargaining duties. The ALJ rejected this argument for two reasons. First, he concluded that it was irrelevant that the Union did not intend to interfere with the employer's relationship with its § 8(b)(1)(B) representatives, because the discipline could nonetheless have the effect of forcing the representative to quit, depriving the employer of his or her services. Second, he determined that the argument was inapplicable in this case because the Union did seek to represent the employees of Royal and Nutter at some future date. Id. at
   1002.

   The NLRB adopted the ALJ's findings and conclusions. It ordered the Union to rescind the fines levied on Schoux and Choate, to expunge from their records the disciplinary action taken against them, and to post appropriate notices. On November 8, 1984, the Board sought enforcement of its order in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

   The Court of Appeals agreed with the NLRB's conclusion that Schoux and Choate were representatives of the employer


   for the purposes of § 8(b)(1)(B). It rejected, however, the Board's conclusion that the Union did, in fact, intend to represent the employees of Royal and Nutter. [Footnote 3] As a result, the court reversed the finding of a § 8(b)(1)(B) violation, holding that,

   "when a union does not represent or intend to represent the complaining company's employees[,] there can be no Section 8(b)(1)(B) violation when a union disciplines members, even if they are designated bargaining representatives."

   780 F.2d 1489, 1492 (CA9 1986). The court relied on its previous decision in NLRB v. International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, 714 F.2d 870, 871 (CA9 1980), where it had reasoned that a union that does not represent or intend to represent a company's employees

   "ha[s] no incentive to either influence [the employer's] choice of bargaining representatives or affect [the supervisor-member's] loyalty to [the employer]."

   We granted certiorari, 479 U.S. 811 (1986), to resolve a conflict in the Circuits. [Footnote 4] We now affirm.



   We first review the Court of Appeals' holding that Schoux and Choate were § 8(b)(1)(B) employer representatives. To address this issue, it is first necessary to retrace briefly the treatment of § 8(b)(1)(B) by the Board and this Court.

   Section 8(b)(1)(B) of the NLRA provides:

   "It shall be an unfair labor practice for a labor organization or its agents -- "

   "(1) to restrain or coerce . . . (B) an employer in the selection of his representatives for the purposes of collective bargaining or the adjustment of grievances."

   This section was enacted to prevent a union from exerting direct pressure on an employer to force it into a multiemployer bargaining unit or to dictate its choice of representatives for the settlement of employee grievances. S.Rep. No. 105, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., pt. 1, p. 21 (1947).

   For two decades after enactment, the Board construed § 8(b)(1)(B) to prohibit only union pressure applied directly to the employer, and intended to compel it to replace its chosen representative. In 1968, however, the Board substantially extended § 8(b)(1)(B) in San Francisco-Oakland Mailers' Union No. 18 (Northwest Publications, Inc.), 172 N.L.R.B. 2173 (Oakland Mailers). The NLRB held that a union violates § 8(b)(1)(B) when it disciplines an employer representative for the manner in which his or her § 8(b)(1)(B) duties are performed. The Board reasoned that the union "interfer[ed] with the [employer's] control over its representatives" by attempting "to compel the employer's foremen to take pro-union positions in interpreting the collective bargaining agreement," because the employer "would have to replace its foremen or face de facto nonrepresentation by them." Id. at 2173-2174. Hence, the Board concluded that union pressure designed to alter the manner in which an employer
   representative performs § 8(b)(1)(B) functions coerces the employer in its selection of that § 8(b)(1)(B) representative.


   This decision extended § 8(b)(1)(B) in two ways. First, it prohibited indirect coercion of the employer's selection of a representative that might result from union pressure on the employer representative. Second, it suggested that contract interpretation is so closely related to collective bargaining that it, too, is a § 8(b)(1)(B) activity. This Court has since indicated that the Board's expansion of § 8(b)(1)(B) in Oakland Mailers was, at best, "within the outer limits" of the section. Florida Power & Light Co. v. Electrical Workers, 417 U. S. 790, 417 U. S. 805 (1974).

   In the meantime, however, subsequent decisions of the NLRB further extended § 8(b)(1)(B) to prohibit union discipline of employer representatives for the manner in which they performed supervisory functions other than collective bargaining, contract interpretation, and grievance adjustment. In the Board's view,

   "disciplining . . . a supervisor whenever he was engaged in management or supervisory activities, even though his collective bargaining or grievance adjustment duties were not involved"

   would have the same coercive effect as disciplining an employer representative engaged in § 8(b)(1)(B) duties. Id. at 802. Section 8(b)(1)(B) became, in the eyes of the Board,

   "a general prohibition of a union's disciplining supervisor-members for their conduct in the course of representing the interests of their employers."

   Ibid.

   In Florida Power, this expansion came to an abrupt halt; indeed, a retreat was called. The Court held that § 8(b)(1)(B) cannot be read to prohibit discipline of employer representatives for performance of rank-and-file work during a strike. The decision created a restrictive "adverse-effect" test to determine when § 8(b)(1)(B) is violated:

   "Nowhere in the legislative history is there to be found any implication that Congress sought to extend protection to the employer from union restraint or coercion when engaged in any activity other than the selection of its representatives for the purposes of collective


   bargaining and grievance adjustment. The conclusion is thus inescapable that a union's discipline of one of its members who is a supervisory employee can constitute a violation of § 8(b)(1)(B) only when that discipline may adversely affect the supervisor's conduct in performing the duties of, and acting in his capacity as, grievance adjuster or collective bargainer on behalf of the employer."

   417 U.S. at 417 U. S. 804-805 (emphasis added). The Court then found that the union's discipline of employer representatives who crossed a picket line to do struck work could not adversely affect performance of § 8(b)(1)(B) duties. In so finding, the Court stressed that the employer representatives "were not engaged in collective bargaining or grievance adjustment, or in any activities related thereto." Id. at 417 U. S. 805.

   The Court's language implicitly limited the application of the adverse effect test: an adverse effect on future § 8(b)(1)(B) activities exists only when an employer representative is disciplined for behavior that occurs while he or she is engaged in § 8(b)(1)(B) duties -- that is, "collective bargaining or grievance adjustment, or . . . any activities related thereto." Ibid. [Footnote 5] This conclusion is supported by


   the Court's determination that the general impact of union discipline on a § 8(b)(1)(B) representative's loyalty to the employer is insufficient to create a § 8(b)(1)(B) violation. The Court recognized that a "likely effect" of union discipline of the employer representative for performing tasks other than grievance adjustment and collective bargaining would be "to make [the representative] subservient to the union's wishes when he performs those functions in the future." Id. at 417 U. S. 807. Nonetheless the Court refused to consider this potential problem of conflicting loyalties an adverse effect of union discipline, because Congress did not design § 8(b)(1)(B) to guarantee employers the undivided loyalty of § 8(b)(1)(B) representatives. [Footnote 6] Based on a review of the legislative history of §§ 2(3), 2(11), 14(a), and 8(b)(1)(B) of the Act, [Footnote 7] the Court held:


   "Congress' solution [to the problem of conflicting loyalties] was essentially one of providing the employer with an option. On the one hand, he is at liberty to demand absolute loyalty from his supervisory personnel by insisting, on pain of discharge, that they neither participate in, nor retain membership in, a labor organization. Alternatively, an employer who wishes to do so can permit his supervisors to join or retain their membership in labor unions, resolving such conflicts as arise through the traditional procedures of collective bargaining. But it is quite apparent, given the statutory language and the particular concerns that the legislative history shows motivated Congress to enact § 8(b)(1)(B), that it did not intend to make that provision any part of the solution to the generalized problem of supervisor-member conflict of loyalties."

   Id. at 417 U. S. 812-813 (citation omitted; footnote omitted).

   In addition, the Court stated that it was willing to assume that "the Board's Oakland Mailers decision fell within the outer limits" of the adverse effect test. Id. at 417 U. S. 805. Thus, implicitly, the Board went beyond those limits

   "[i]n . . . subsequent cases . . . [where] the Board held that the same coercive effect was likely to arise from the disciplining of a supervisor whenever he was engaged in management or supervisory activities, even though his collective bargaining or grievance-adjusting duties were not involved."

   Id. at 417 U. S. 801-802.

   Four years later, in American Broadcasting Cos. v. Writers Guild, West, Inc., 437 U. S. 411 (1978) (ABC), the Court applied the adverse effect test enunciated in Florida Power and held that union discipline of employer representatives who performed § 8(b)(1)(B) duties, specifically grievance adjustment, during a strike violated the employer's rights under § 8(b)(1)(B):


   "[T]he Court in [Florida Power] delineated the boundaries of when that 'carryover' effect would violate § 8(b) (1)(B): whenever such discipline may adversely affect the supervisor's conduct in his capacity as a grievance adjustor or collective bargainer. In these situations -- that is, when such impact might be felt -- the employer would be deprived of the full services of his representatives, and hence would be restrained and coerced in his selection of those representatives."

   437 U.S. at 437 U. S. 429 (emphasis added). The Court also held that, before a § 8(b)(1)(B) violation can be sustained, the NLRB must make a factual finding that a union's sanction will adversely affect the employer representative's performance of collective bargaining or grievance-adjusting duties. Id. at 437 U. S. 430.

   In ABC, therefore, the Board found, and the Court agreed, that the union fines of employer representatives engaged in grievance adjustment would have an adverse effect on the supervisor-member's future performance of that same § 8(b)(1)(B) duty. This holding is consistent with the analysis of the Court in Florida Power -- that § 8(b)(1)(B) forbids only discipline for acts or omissions that occur while an employer representative is engaged in § 8(b)(1)(B) activities. [Footnote 8] Accordingly,


   we conclude that discipline of a supervisor member is prohibited under § 8(b)(1)(B) only when that member is engaged in § 8(b)(1)(B) activities -- that is, collective bargaining, grievance adjustment, or some other closely related activity (e.g., contract interpretation, as in Oakland Mailers).

   One obvious ramification of this conclusion is that § 8(b)(1)(B) prohibits discipline of only those supervisor-members who actually perform § 8(b)(1)(B) duties. Clearly a supervisor cannot be disciplined for acts or omissions that occur during performance of § 8(b)(1)(B) duties if he or she has none. We therefore reject the NLRB's "reservoir doctrine," on which the Court of Appeals relied. As stated above, the rationale of the doctrine is that § 2(11) supervisors constitute a reservoir of workers available for selection at some future date as collective bargaining agents or grievance adjusters. The Board speculates that, if a union is permitted to discipline a supervisor-member, even one without § 8(b)(1)(B) duties, the union discipline might affect the supervisor's loyalty to his or her employer, the effect of that discipline might linger, a smaller pool of loyal supervisors might be available, and the employer might therefore be restricted in its future choice of representatives for §
   8(b)(1)(B) purposes. The reservoir doctrine, and this chain of suppositions on which it rests, cannot be reconciled with the structure of the NLRA or with the Court's limited construction of § 8(b)(1)(B) in Florida Power and ABC.

   The structure of the NLRA reveals that, in § 8(b)(1)(B), Congress addressed "a separate and far more limited problem than that of conflict of loyalties." Florida Power, 417 U.S. at 417 U. S. 811, n. 21. One need only compare the scope of § 8(b)(1)(B) with that of other sections of the Act: § 8(b)(1)(B) covers only individuals selected as the employer's representatives "for the purposes of collective bargaining or the adjustment of grievances," while the total class of supervisors


   "is defined by § 2(11) to include individuals engaged in a substantially broader range of activities." 417 U.S. at 417 U. S. 811, n. 21.

   Second, the Board's justification for the "reservoir doctrine" is that it protects the supervisor's loyalty to the employer from the conflicting pressures of union discipline. [Footnote 9] Yet union discipline of supervisors who engage in no § 8(b)(1)(B) activity coerces the employer only by creating the potential for interference with hypothetical grievance adjustment or collective bargaining duties; it cannot have a contemporaneous effect on the performance of § 8(b)(1)(B) duties themselves. This is precisely the vague conflict-of-loyalties concern the Court said could not support a § 8(b)(1)(B) charge against the union. Florida Power, supra, at 417 U. S. 812-813. [Footnote 10]


   Finally, the crux of the Court's holding in ABC was that the Board must make a factual inquiry whether a union's sanction may adversely affect the employer representative's performance of collective bargaining or grievance-adjusting duties before a § 8(b)(1)(B) violation can be sustained. 437 U.S. at 437 U. S. 430. One simply cannot discern whether discipline will have an adverse impact on a supervisor-member's future performance of § 8(b)(1)(B) duties when their existence is purely hypothetical. [Footnote 11]

   We conclude that the union discipline at issue was not an unfair labor practice. Although both Schoux and Choate were supervisors within the meaning of § 2(11), neither had grievance-adjustment or collective bargaining responsibilities protected by § 8(b)(1)(B). [Footnote 12] The possibility that a § 2(11)


   supervisor might someday perform § 8(b)(1)(B) functions, and that past discipline might then have an adverse effect on the performance of such duties, is simply too speculative to support a finding that an employer has been "restrain[ed] or coerce[d]" "in the selection of his representatives for the purposes of collective bargaining or the adjustment of grievances."


   The Court of Appeals found, as a matter of law, that the Union did not have a collective bargaining relationship with Royal or Nutter, and that it did not seek to represent their employees in the future. It held that such a finding precluded union liability for violation of § 8(b)(1)(B). The NLRB argues, however, that, even under these circumstances, the Union's enforcement of its no-contract-no-work rule against its supervisor-members would restrain or coerce Royal and Nutter by affecting the way in which the supervisor-members performed their § 8(b)(1)(B) tasks, and by restricting the selection of § 8(b)(1)(B) representatives. On reasoning analogous to that in 481 U. S. we find that the absence of a collective bargaining relationship between the union and the employer, like the absence of § 8(b)(1)(B) responsibilities in a disciplined supervisor-member, makes the possibility that the Union's discipline of Schoux and Choate will coerce Royal and Nutter too attenuated to form the basis of
   an unfair labor practice charge.


   First, the discipline will not affect the manner in which employer representatives perform grievance adjustment or collective bargaining tasks. When a union has a collective bargaining relationship with an employer, it may have an incentive to affect its supervisor-member's handling of grievance adjustment and collective bargaining chores. Moreover, union discipline of employer representatives for behavior that occurs during performance of § 8(b)(1)(B) duties might adversely affect the future performance of those duties. See supra at 481 U. S. 585-586. But when a union has no collective bargaining relationship with an employer, and does not seek to establish one, both the incentive to affect a supervisor's performance and the possibility that an adverse effect will occur vanish. The union has nothing to gain by interference with the supervisor-member's loyalty during grievance adjustment or collective bargaining; nor can the employer representative reasonably expect that he or she will be
   subject to discipline for the manner in which those duties are performed in the future. [Footnote 13] In other words, the assumption underpinning Florida Power and ABC -- that an adverse effect can occur simply by virtue of the fact that an employer representative is disciplined for behavior that occurs during performance of § 8(b)(1)(B) tasks -- is not applicable when the employer has no continuing relationship with the union. [Footnote 14]


   Second, the Union's discipline of Schoux and Choate does not coerce Royal and Nutter in their selection of § 8(b)(1)(B) representatives. Section 8(b)(1)(B) was primarily intended to prevent a union engaged in a long-term relationship with an employer from dictating the latter's choice of representative or the form that representation would take (single-unit or multiemployer unit). See S.Rep. No. 105, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 21 (1947). It was not intended to prevent enforcement of uniform union rules that may occasionally have the incidental effect of making a supervisory position less desirable.

   The only sense in which employers (both those with and those without a collective bargaining relationship with the union) may be coerced in their selection of § 8(b)(1)(B) representatives by the application of the no-contract-no-work rule to supervisor-members is that the employer may be left with a smaller pool of individuals from which it may choose its representatives. This is because some union members will be reluctant to serve as § 8(b)(1)(B) representatives if the price is loss of union membership or payment of disciplinary fines. [Footnote 15]


   For example, the no-contract-no-work rule is designed to prevent any union member from working for an employer that does not pay the union wage scale, but it does have the peripheral effect of making a § 8(b)(1)(B) representative less willing to serve in that capacity than he or she otherwise would be, see ABC, 437 U.S. at 437 U. S. 436, thereby limiting the employer's selection. Any discipline imposed on a § 8(b)(1)(B) representative, however, will affect willingness to serve in this sense. [Footnote 16]


   In addition, so long as there is any attraction to union membership, this test would preclude existence of union rules excluding supervisors from membership. Again, this is because any union member who valued membership would be less willing to serve, see ABC, supra, at 437 U. S. 436, if the cost of service were loss of membership, and because any reluctance to give up membership would limit the size of the supervisor pool from which an employer could select its representatives. [Footnote 17] This minimal effect on an employer's selection of § 8(b)(1)(B) representatives is insufficient to support a § 8(b)(1)(B) charge. It is inconceivable that every union rule that affects a union member's willingness to serve as a supervisor could be prohibited by a provision as narrow in scope as § 8(b)(1)(B).

   A supervisor-member cannot serve both masters without incurring some obligations to both; it is simply unfair to require unions to accept members who receive all of the benefits of the association and bear none of the obligations. [Footnote 18] We


   therefore reject the argument that unions must both accept supervisor-members and grant them immunity from enforcement of uniform rules.

   Finally, both the structure of the NLRA and recent developments in its interpretation suggest that employers are no longer restrained or coerced in their selection of representatives by union discipline of supervisor-members. The statute itself reveals that it is the employer, not the supervisor-member, who is protected from coercion by the statutory scheme. It is difficult to maintain that an employer is restrained or coerced because a union member must accept union expulsion or other discipline to continue in a supervisory position. The employer's problem -- that the supervisor-member might decline to serve as a representative or align with the union during a strike, and deprive the employer of services -- is of its own making. A dissenting member of the Board has said:

   "Having been afforded the opportunity to refuse to hire union members as supervisors, the opportunity to discharge supervisors for involvement in union affairs, the opportunity to incorporate into a collective bargaining agreement the permissible extent of a supervisor-member's functioning during a strike and, indeed, the opportunity to provide additional incentives making it worthwhile for all union members to forfeit union benefits upon taking supervisory positions, the employer, having forsaken such opportunities, cannot now be heard to argue that the union is affecting its selection of the very grievance adjustment or collective bargaining representative it permits to retain union membership."

   New York Typographical Union No. 6 (Triangle Publications), 216 N.L.R.B. 896, 901 (1975) (member Fanning, dissenting).


   In ABC, the Court determined that the employer was coerced despite the fact that it could order the supervisor-members to leave the union and free themselves from further threats of discipline. But, as the Court pointed out, when ABC was decided, supervisor-members were not free to leave the union at any time. In ABC, for example, the union had a "known policy not to permit a member to resign during a strike and for a period of six months thereafter," so plainly "the employer's only recourse would have been to replace [the supervisor-members] as his grievance representatives." 437 U.S. at 437 U. S. 436-437.

   The law has since changed. Recently, this Court decided in Pattern Makers v. NLRB, 473 U. S. 95 (1985), that union members have a right to resign from a union at any time and avoid imposition of union discipline. The employer may order its representatives to leave the union immediately, and there is no barrier to a supervisor-member's obedience to that order. The very least that may be derived from Pattern Makers is that union rules or discipline that merely diminish an employer representative's willingness to serve no longer restrain or coerce the employer in its selection of a § 8(b)(1)(B) representative.

IV

   Section 8(b)(1)(B) was enacted to protect the integrity of the processes of grievance adjustment and collective bargaining -- two private dispute-resolution systems on which the national labor laws place a high premium. Although some union discipline might impermissibly affect the manner in which a supervisor-member carries out § 8(b)(1)(B) tasks or coerce the employer in its selection of a § 8(b)(1)(B) representative, union discipline directed at supervisor-members without § 8(b)(1)(B) duties, working for employers with whom the union neither has nor seeks a collective bargaining relationship, cannot and does not adversely affect the performance of § 8(b)(1)(B) duties. Consequently, such union


   action does not coerce the employer in its selection of § 8(b)(1)(B) representatives. The order of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is therefore

   Affirmed.
