        Justice Kagan delivered the opinion of the Court.

        A provision of the federal bank fraud statute, 18 U. S. C. §1344(2), makes criminal a knowing scheme to obtain property owned by, or in the custody of, a bank "by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises." The question presented is whether the Government must prove that a defendant charged with violating that provision intended to defraud a bank. We hold that the Government need not make that showing.


        Petitioner Kevin Loughrin executed a scheme to convert altered or forged checks into cash. Pretending to be a Mormon missionary going door-to-door in a neighborhood in Salt Lake City, he rifled through residential mailboxes and stole any checks he found. Sometimes, he washed, bleached, ironed, and dried the checks to remove the existing writing, and then filled them out as he wanted; other times, he did nothing more than cross out the name of the original payee and add another. And when he was lucky enough to stumble upon a blank check, he completed it and forged the accountholder's signature. Over several months, Loughrin made out six of these checks to the retailer Target, for amounts of up to $250. His modus operandi was to go to a local store and, posing as the accountholder, present an altered check to a cashier to purchase merchandise. After the cashier accepted the check (which, remarkably enough, happened time after time), Loughrin would leave the store, then turn around and
   walk back inside to return the goods for cash.

        Each of the six checks that Loughrin presented to Target was drawn on an account at a federally insured bank, including Bank of America and Wells Fargo. Employees in Target's back office identified three of the checks as fraudulent, and so declined to submit them for payment. Target deposited the other three checks. The bank refused payment on one, after the accountholder notified the bank that she had seen a man steal her mail. Target appears to have received payment for the other two checks, though the record does not conclusively establish that fact. See Brief for United States 6, 7, n. 3.

        The Federal Government eventually caught up with Loughrin and charged him with six counts of committing bank fraud--one for each of the altered checks presented to Target. The federal bank fraud statute, 18 U. S. C. §1344, provides as follows:

   "Whoever knowingly executes, or attempts to execute, a scheme or artifice--

        (1) to defraud a financial institution; or

        (2) to obtain any of the moneys, funds, credits, assets, securities, or other property owned by, or under the custody or control of, a financial institution, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises;

   shall be fined not more than $1,000,000 or imprisoned not more than 30 years, or both."[1]

   Ruling (for a reason not material here) that Circuit precedent precluded convicting Loughrin under the statute's first clause, §1344(1), the District Court allowed the case to go to the jury on the statute's second, §1344(2).

        The court instructed the jury that it could convict Loughrin under that clause if, in offering the fraudulent checks to Target, he had "knowingly executed or at-tempted to execute a scheme or artifice to obtain money or property from the [banks on which the checks were drawn] by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises." App. 7. Loughrin asked as well for another instruction: The jury, he argued, must also find that he acted with "intent to defraud a financial institution." App. to Pet. for Cert. 43a. The court, however, declined to give that charge, and the jury convicted Loughrin on all six counts.

        The United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit affirmed. See 710 F. 3d 1111 (2013). As relevant here, it rejected Loughrin's argument that "a conviction under §1344(2) requires proof that he intended to defraud the banks on which the [altered] checks had been drawn." Id., at 1115. That intent, the court reasoned, is necessary only under the bank fraud law's first clause. The court acknowledged that under its interpretation, §1344(2) "cast[s] a wide net for bank fraud liability," but concluded that such a result is "dictated by the plain language of the statute." Id., at 1117.

        We granted certiorari, 571 U. S. ___ (2013), to resolve a Circuit split on whether §1344(2) requires the Government to show that a defendant intended to defraud a federally insured bank or other financial institution.[2] We now affirm the Tenth Circuit's decision.


        We begin with common ground. All parties agree, as do we and the Courts of Appeals, that §1344(2) requires that a defendant "knowingly execute[ ], or attempt[ ] to execute, a scheme or artifice" with at least two elements. First, the clause requires that the defendant intend "to obtain any of the moneys . . . or other property owned by, or under the custody or control of, a financial institution." (We refer to that element, more briefly, as intent "to obtain bank property.") Brief for United States 11, 17, 20, 22, 32; Brief for Petitioner 30-31. And second, the clause requires that the envisioned result--i.e., the obtaining of bank property--occur "by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises." See Brief for United States 21-22; Reply Brief 18-19. Loughrin does not contest the jury instructions on either of those two elements. Nor does he properly challenge the sufficiency of the evidence supporting them here.[3]

        The single question presented is whether the Government must prove yet another element: that the defendant intended to defraud a bank. As Loughrin describes it, that element would compel the Government to show not just that a defendant intended to obtain bank property (as the jury here found), but also that he specifically intended to deceive a bank. See Reply Brief 17. And that difference, Loughrin claims, would have mattered in this case, because his intent to deceive ran only to Target, and not to any of the banks on which his altered checks were drawn.

        But the text of §1344(2) precludes Loughrin's argument. That clause focuses, first, on the scheme's goal (obtaining bank property) and, second, on the scheme's means (a false representation). We will later address how the "means" component of §1344(2) imposes certain inherent limits on its reach. See infra, at 11-14. But nothing in the clause additionally demands that a defendant have a specific intent to deceive a bank. And indeed, imposing that requirement would prevent §1344(2) from applying to a host of cases falling within its clear terms. In particular, the clause covers property "owned by" the bank but in someone else's custody and control (say, a home that the bank entrusted to a real estate company after foreclosure); thus, a person violates §1344(2)'s plain text by deceiving a non-bank custodian into giving up bank property that it holds. Yet under Loughrin's view, the clause would not apply to such a case except in the (presumably rare) circumstance in which the fraudster's
   intent to deceive extended beyond the custodian to the bank itself. His proposed inquiry would thus function as an extra-textual limit on the clause's compass.

        And Loughrin's construction of §1344(2) becomes yet more untenable in light of the rest of the bank fraud statute. That is because the first clause of §1344, as all agree, includes the requirement that a defendant intend to "defraud a financial institution"; indeed, that is §1344(1)'s whole sum and substance. See Brief for United States 18; Brief for Petitioner 8. To read the next clause, following the word "or," as somehow repeating that requirement, even while using different words, is to disregard what "or" customarily means. As we have recognized, that term's "ordinary use is almost always disjunctive, that is, the words it connects are to be given separate meanings." United States v. Woods, 571 U. S. ___, ___ (2013) (slip op., at 14). Yet Loughrin would have us construe the two entirely distinct statutory phrases that the word "or" joins as containing an identical element. And in doing so, his interpretation would make §1344's second clause a mere subset of its first: If, that is,
   §1344(2) implicitly required intent to defraud a bank, it would apply only to conduct already falling within §1344(1). Loughrin's construction thus effectively reads "or" to mean "including"--a definition foreign to any dictionary we know of.

        As that account suggests, Loughrin's view collides as well with more general canons of statutory interpretation. We have often noted that when "Congress includes particular language in one section of a statute but omits it in another"--let alone in the very next provision--this Court "presume[s]" that Congress intended a difference in meaning. Russello v. United States, 464 U. S. 16, 23 (1983) (citation omitted). And here, as just stated, overriding that presumption would render §1344's second clause superfluous. Loughrin's view thus runs afoul of the "cardinal principle" of interpretation that courts "must give effect, if possible, to every clause and word of a statute." Williams v. Taylor, 529 U. S. 362, 404 (2000) (citation omitted).[4]


        Loughrin makes two principal arguments to avoid the import of the statute's plain text. First, he relies on this Court's construction of comparable language in the federal mail fraud statute to assert that Congress intended §1344(2) merely to explicate the scope of §1344(1)'s prohibition on scheming to defraud a bank, rather than to cover any additional conduct. And second, he contends that unless we read the second clause in that duplicative way, its coverage would extend to a vast range of fraudulent schemes, thus intruding on the historic criminal jurisdiction of the States. Neither argument is without force, but in the end, neither carries the day.

   A

        "[D]espite appearances," Loughrin avers, §1344(2) has no independent meaning: It merely specifies part of what §1344(1) already encompasses. Brief for Petitioner 8. To support that concededly counterintuitive argument, Loughrin invokes our decision in McNally v. United States, 483 U. S. 350 (1987) , interpreting similar language in the mail fraud statute, 18 U. S. C. §1341. That law, which served as a model for §1344, see Neder v. United States, 527 U. S. 1 -21 (1999), prohibits using the mail to further "any scheme or artifice to defraud, or for obtaining money or property by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises." Loughrin rightly explains that, despite the word "or," McNally understood that provision as setting forth just one offense--using the mails to advance a scheme to defraud. The provision's back half, we held, merely codified a prior judicial decision applying the front half: In other words, the back clarified that the front included certain
   conduct, rather than doing independent work. 483 U. S., at 358-359. According to Loughrin, we should read the bank fraud statute in the same way.

        But the two statutes, as an initial matter, have notable textual differences. The mail fraud law contains two phrases strung together in a single, unbroken sentence. By contrast, §1344's two clauses have separate numbers, line breaks before, between, and after them, and equivalent indentation--thus placing the clauses visually on an equal footing and indicating that they have separate meanings. The legislative structure thus reinforces the usual (even if not McNally's) understanding of the word "or" as meaning . . . well, "or"--rather than, as Loughrin would have it, "including."

        Moreover, Loughrin's reliance on McNally encounters a serious chronological problem. Congress passed the bank fraud statute in 1984, three years before we decided that case. And at that time, every Court of Appeals to have addressed the issue had concluded that the two relevant phrases of the mail fraud law must be read "in the disjunctive" and "construed independently." 483 U. S., at 358 (citing, e.g., United States v. Clapps, 732 F. 2d 1148, 1152 (CA3 1984); United States v. States, 488 F. 2d 761, 764 (CA8 1973)). McNally disagreed, eschewing the most natural reading of the text in favor of evidence it found in the drafting history of the statute's money-or-property clause. But the Congress that passed the bank fraud statute could hardly have predicted that McNally would overturn the lower courts' uniform reading. We thus see no reason to doubt that in enacting §1344, Congress said what it meant and meant what it said, see Connecticut Nat. Bank v. Germain, 503 U. S. 249, 254 (1992)
   --i.e., that it both said "or" and meant "or" in the usual sense.

        And a peek at history, of the kind McNally found decisive, only cuts against Loughrin's reading of the bank fraud statute. According to McNally, Congress added the mail fraud statute's second, money-or-property clause merely to affirm a decision of ours interpreting the ban on schemes "to defraud": The second clause, McNally reasoned, thus worked no substantive change in the law. See 483 U. S., at 356-359 (discussing Congress's codification of Durland v. United States, 161 U. S. 306 (1896) ). By contrast, Congress passed the bank fraud statute to disapprove prior judicial rulings and thereby expand federal criminal law's scope--and indeed, partly to cover cases like Loughrin's. One of the decisions prompting enactment of the bank fraud law, United States v. Maze, 414 U. S. 395 (1974) , involved a defendant who used a stolen credit card to obtain food and lodging. (Substitute a check for a credit card and Maze becomes Loughrin.) The Government brought charges of mail fraud, relying on
   post-purchase mailings between the merchants and issuing bank to satisfy the statute's mailing element. But the Court held those mailings insufficiently integral to the fraudulent scheme to support the conviction. See id., at 402. Hence, Maze created a "serious gap[ ] . . . in Federal jurisdiction over frauds against banks." S. Rep. No. 98-225, p. 377 (1983). Congress passed §1344 to fill that gap, enabling the Federal Government to prosecute fraudsters like Maze and Loughrin. We will not deprive that enactment of its full effect because McNally relied on different history to adopt a counter-textual reading of a similar provision.

   B

        Loughrin also appeals to principles of federalism to support his proffered construction. Unless we read §1344(2) as requiring intent to defraud a bank, Loughrin contends, the provision will extend to every fraud, no matter how prosaic, happening to involve payment with a check--even when that check is perfectly valid. Consider, for example, a garden-variety con: A fraudster sells something to a customer, misrepresenting its value. There are countless variations, but let's say the fraudster passes off a cheap knock-off as a Louis Vuitton handbag. The victim pays for the bag with a good check, which the criminal cashes. Voila!, Loughrin says, bank fraud has just happened--unless we adopt his narrowing construction. After all, the criminal has intended to "obtain . . . property . . . under the custody or control of" the bank (the money in the victim's checking account), and has made "false or fraudulent . . . representations" (the lies to the victim about the handbag).[5] But if the bank
   fraud statute were to encompass all such schemes, Loughrin continues, it would interfere with matters "squarely within the traditional criminal jurisdiction of the state courts." Brief for Petitioner 29. We should avoid such a "sweeping expansion of federal criminal" law, he concludes, by reading §1344(2), just like §1344(1), as requiring intent to defraud a bank. Reply Brief 3 (quoting Cleveland v. United States, 531 U. S. 12, 24 (2000) ).

        We agree with this much of what Loughrin argues: Unless the text requires us to do so, we should not construe §1344(2) as a plenary ban on fraud, contingent only on use of a check (rather than cash). As we have often (and recently) repeated, "we will not be quick to assume that Congress has meant to effect a significant change in the sensitive relation between federal and state criminal jurisdiction." Bond v. United States, 572 U. S. ___, ___ (2014) (slip op., at 13) (quoting United States v. Bass, 404 U. S. 336, 349 (1971) ); see Cleveland, 531 U. S., at 24 ("We resist the Government's reading . . . because it invites us to approve a sweeping expansion of federal criminal jurisdiction in the absence of a clear statement by Congress"); Jones v. United States, 529 U. S. 848, 858 (2000) (similar). Just such a rebalancing of criminal jurisdiction would follow from interpreting §1344(2) to cover every pedestrian swindle happening to involve payment by check, but in no other way affecting
   financial institutions. Indeed, even the Government expresses some mild discomfort with "federalizing frauds that are only tangentially related to the banking system." Brief for United States 41.

        But in claiming that we must therefore recognize an invisible element, Loughrin fails to take account of a significant textual limitation on §1344(2)'s reach. Under that clause, it is not enough that a fraudster scheme to obtain money from a bank and that he make a false statement. The provision as well includes a relational component: The criminal must acquire (or attempt to acquire) bank property "by means of" the misrepresentation. That phrase typically indicates that the given result (the "end") is achieved, at least in part, through the specified action, instrument, or method (the "means"), such that the connection between the two is something more than oblique, indirect, and incidental. See, e.g., Webster's Third New International Dictionary 1399 (2002) (defining "by means of" as "through the instrumentality of: by the use of as a means"); 9 Oxford English Dictionary 516 (2d ed. 1989) (defining "means" as "[a]n instrument, agency, method, or course of action, by the employment of
   which some object is or may be attained, or which is concerned in bringing about some result"). In other words, not every but-for cause will do. If, to pick an example out of a hat, Jane traded in her car for money to take a bike trip cross-country, no one would say she "crossed the Rockies by means of a car," even though her sale of the car somehow figured in the trip she took. The relation between those things would be (as the Government puts it) too "tangential[ ]" to make use of the phrase at all appropriate. Brief for United States 41.

        Section 1344(2)'s "by means of" language is satisfied when, as here, the defendant's false statement is the mechanism naturally inducing a bank (or custodian of bank property) to part with money in its control. That occurs, most clearly, when a defendant makes a misrepresentation to the bank itself--say, when he attempts to cash, at the teller's window, a forged or altered check. In that event, the defendant seeks to obtain bank property by means of presenting the forgery directly to a bank em-ployee. But no less is the counterfeit check the "means" of obtaining bank funds when a defendant like Loughrin offers it as payment to a third party like Target.[6] After all, a merchant accepts a check only to pass it along to a bank for payment; and upon receipt from the merchant, that check triggers the disbursement of bank funds just as if presented by the fraudster himself. So in either case, the forged or altered check--i.e., the false statement--serves in the ordinary course as the means
   (or to use other words, the mechanism or instrumentality) of obtaining bank property. To be sure, a merchant might detect the fraud (as Target sometimes did) and decline to submit the forged or altered check to the bank. But that is to say only that the defendant's scheme to obtain bank property by means of a false statement may not succeed. And we have long made clear that such failure is irrelevant in a bank fraud case, because §1344 punishes not "completed frauds," but instead fraudulent "scheme[s]." Neder, 527 U. S., at 25.

        By contrast, the cases Loughrin hopes will unnerve us--exemplified by the handbag swindle--do not satisfy §1344(2)'s "means" requirement.[7] Recall that in such a case the check is perfectly valid; so the check itself is not (as it was here) a false or fraudulent means of obtaining bank money. And the false pretense that has led, say, the handbag buyer to give a check to the fraudster has nothing to do with the bank that will cash it: No one would dream of passing on to the bank (as Target would forward a forged check) the lie that a knock-off is a Louis Vuitton. The bank's involvement in the scheme is, indeed, wholly fortuitous--a function of the victim's paying the fraudster by (valid) check rather than cash. Of course, the bank would not have disbursed funds had the misrepresentation never occurred, and in that sense, the lie counts as a but-for cause of the bank's payment. But as we have said, §1344(2)'s "by means of" language requires more, see supra, at 11-12: It demands that the
   defendant's false statement is the mechanism naturally inducing a bank (or custodian) to part with its money. And in cases like the handbag swindle, where no false statement will ever go to a financial institution, the fraud is not the means of obtaining bank property.[8]

        The premise of Loughrin's federalism argument thus collapses. He claims that we must import an unstated element into §1344(2) to avoid covering run-of-the-mill frauds, properly of concern only to States. But in fact, the text of §1344(2) already limits its scope to deceptions that have some real connection to a federally insured bank, and thus implicate the pertinent federal interest. See S. Rep. No. 98-225, at 378 (noting that federal "jurisdiction is based on the fact that the victim of the offense is a federally controlled or insured institution"). And Loughrin's own crime, as we have explained, is one such scheme, because he made false statements, in the form of forged and altered checks, that a merchant would, in the ordinary course of business, forward to a bank for payment. See supra, at 12-13. We therefore reject Loughrin's reading of §1344(2) and his challenge to his conviction.[9]

        For the reasons stated, we affirm the judgment of the Tenth Circuit.

   It is so ordered.
