   JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the Court.

   In Miller v. California, 413 U. S. 15 (1973), the Court set out a tripartite test for judging whether material is obscene. The third prong of the Miller test requires the trier of fact to determine "whether the work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value." Id. at 413 U. S. 24. The issue in this case is whether, in a prosecution for


   the sale of allegedly obscene materials, the jury may be instructed to apply community standards in deciding the value question.


   On July 21, 1983, Rockford, Illinois, police detectives purchased certain magazines from the two petitioners, each of whom was an attendant at an adult bookstore. Petitioners were subsequently charged separately with the offense of "obscenity" for the sale of these magazines. Each petitioner moved to dismiss the charges against him on the ground that the then-current version of the Illinois obscenity statute, Ill.Rev.Stat., ch. 38, &#2013266086; 11-20 (1983), violated the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. Both petitioners argued, among other things, that the statute was unconstitutional in failing to require that the value question be judged "solely on an objective basis, as opposed to reference [sic] to contemporary community standards." App. 8, 22. [Footnote 1] Both trial courts rejected this contention, and instructed the respective juries to judge whether the material was obscene by determining how it would be viewed by ordinary adults in the whole State
   of Illinois. [Footnote 2] Both petitioners


   were found guilty, and both appealed to the Illinois Appellate Court, Second District. That court also rejected petitioners' contention that the issue of value must be determined on an objective basis, and not by reference to contemporary community standards. 138 Ill.App.3d 726, 486 N.E.2d 350 (1985); 138 Ill.App.3d 595, 486 N.E.2d 345 (1985). The Illinois Supreme Court denied review, and we granted certiorari, 479 U.S. 812 (1986).


   There is no suggestion in our cases that the question of the value of an allegedly obscene work is to be determined by reference to community standards. Indeed, our cases are to the contrary. Smith v. United States, 431 U. S. 291 (1977), held that, in a federal prosecution for mailing obscene materials, the first and second prongs of the Miller test -- appeal to prurient interest and patent offensiveness -- are issues of fact for the jury to determine applying contemporary community standards. The Court then observed that, unlike prurient appeal and patent offensiveness, "[l]iterary, artistic, political, or scientific value . . . is not discussed in Miller in terms of contemporary community standards." Id. at 431 U. S. 301 (citing F. Schauer, The Law of Obscenity 123-124 (1976)). This comment was not meant to point out an oversight in the Miller opinion, but to call attention to and approve a deliberate choice.

   In Miller itself, the Court was careful to point out that

   "[t]he First Amendment protects works which, taken as a whole, have serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value, regardless of whether the government or a majority of the people approve of the ideas these works represent."

   413 U.S. at 413 U. S. 34. Just as the ideas a work represents need not obtain majority approval to merit protection, neither, insofar as the First Amendment is concerned, does the value of the work vary from community to community based on the degree of local acceptance it has won. The proper inquiry is not whether an ordinary member of any given community


   would find serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value in allegedly obscene material, but whether a reasonable person would find such value in the material, taken as a whole. [Footnote 3] The instruction at issue in this case was therefore unconstitutional.


   The question remains whether the convictions should be reversed outright, or are subject to salvage if the erroneous instruction is found to be harmless error. Petitioners contend that the statute is invalid on its face, and that the convictions must necessarily be reversed because, as we understand it, the State should not be allowed to preserve any conviction under a law that poses a threat to First Amendment values. But the statute under which petitioners were convicted is no longer on the books; it has been repealed and replaced by a statute that does not call for the application of community standards to the value question. [Footnote 4] Facial invalidation


   of the repealed statute would not serve the purpose of preventing future prosecutions under a constitutionally defective standard. Cf., e.g., Secretary of State of Maryland v. Joseph H. Munson Co., 467 U. S. 947, 467 U. S. 964-968, and n. 13 (1984). And if we did facially invalidate the repealed statute and reverse petitioners' convictions, petitioners could still be retried under that statute, provided that the erroneous instruction was not repeated, because petitioners could not plausibly claim that the repealed statute failed to give them notice that the sale of obscene materials would be prosecuted. See Dombrowski v. Pfister, 380 U. S. 479, 380 U. S. 491, n. 7 (1965); United States v. Thirty-seven Photographs, 402 U. S. 363, 402 U. S. 375, n. 3 (1971). Under these circumstances, we see no reason to require a retrial if it can be said beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury's verdict in this case was not affected by the erroneous instruction.

   The situation here is comparable to that in Rose v. Clark, 478 U. S. 570 (1986). In Rose, the jury in a murder trial was incorrectly instructed on the element of malice, [Footnote 5] yet the Court held that a harmless error inquiry was appropriate. The Court explained that, in the absence of error that renders a trial fundamentally unfair, such as denial of the right to counsel or trial before a financially interested judge, a conviction should be affirmed "[w]here a reviewing court can find that the record developed at trial established guilt beyond a


   reasonable doubt. . . ." Id. at 478 U. S. 579. The error in Rose did not entirely preclude the jury from considering the element of malice, id. at 478 U. S. 580, n. 8, and the fact that the jury could conceivably have had the impermissible presumption in mind when it considered the element of malice was not a reason to retry the defendant if the facts that the jury necessarily found established guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. [Footnote 6] The Court said:

   "When a jury is instructed to presume malice from predicate facts, it still must find the existence of those facts beyond reasonable doubt. Connecticut v. Johnson, 460 U. S. 73, 460 U. S. 96-97 (1983) (POWELL, J., dissenting). In many cases, the predicate facts conclusively establish intent, so that no rational jury could find that the defendant committed the relevant criminal act but did not intend to cause injury."

   Id. at 478 U. S. 580-581.

   Similarly, in the present cases, the jurors were not precluded from considering the question of value: they were informed that, to convict, they must find, among other things, that the magazines petitioners sold were utterly without redeeming social value. While it was error to instruct the juries to use a state community standard in considering the value question, if a reviewing court concludes that no rational juror, if properly instructed, could find value in the magazines, the convictions should stand. [Footnote 7]


   Although we plainly have the authority to decide whether, on the facts of a given case, a constitutional error was harmless under the standard of Chapman v. California, 386 U. S. 18 (1967), we do so sparingly. Rose v. Clark, supra, at 478 U. S. 584. In this case, the Illinois Appellate Court has not considered the harmless error issue. We therefore vacate its judgment and remand so that it may do so.

   It is so ordered.
