   JUSTICE BLACKMUN delivered the opinion of the Court.

   In this case, we consider whether the "plain statement' rule" of Michigan v. Long, 463 U. S. 1032, 463 U. S. 1042, and n. 7 (1983), applies in a case on federal habeas review as well as in a case on direct review in this Court. We hold that it does.


   Petitioner Warren Lee Harris was convicted in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Ill., of murder. On direct appeal, petitioner challenged only the sufficiency of the evidence. The Appellate Court of Illinois, by an unpublished order, affirmed the conviction. App. 5; see 71 Ill.App.3d 1113, 392 N.E.2d 1386 (1979).

   Petitioner then returned to the Circuit Court of Cook County and filed a petition for postconviction relief, alleging that his trial counsel had rendered ineffective assistance in several respects, including his failure to call alibi witnesses. [Footnote 1] The court dismissed the petition without an evidentiary hearing. The Appellate Court of Illinois, in another unpublished order, again affirmed. App. 9.


   In its order, the Appellate Court referred to the "well-settled" principle of Illinois law that "those [issues] which could have been presented [on direct appeal], but were not, are considered waived." Id. at 12. The court found that, "except for the alibi witnesses," petitioner's ineffective-assistance allegations "could have been raised in [his] direct appeal." Ibid. The court, however, went on to consider and reject petitioner's ineffective-assistance claim on its merits.

   Petitioner did not seek review in the Supreme Court of Illinois. Instead, he pursued his ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim in federal court by a petition for a writ of habeas corpus under 28 U.S.C. § 2254. The District Court recognized that, if the Illinois Appellate Court had held this claim to be waived under Illinois law, this Court's decision in Wainwright v. Sykes, 433 U. S. 72 (1977), would bar a federal court's consideration of the claim unless petitioner was able to show either "cause and prejudice" or a "miscarriage of justice." 608 F.Supp. 1369, 1377 (ND Ill.1985). [Footnote 2]

   The District Court, however, determined that the Illinois Appellate Court had not held any portion of the ineffective-assistance claim to have been waived. First, the District Court observed, the state court had "made clear" that the waiver did not apply to the issue of alibi witnesses. Id. at 1378. Second, the court never clearly held any other issue waived. The state court

   "did not appear to make two rulings in the alternative, but rather to note a procedural default and then ignore it, reaching the merits instead."

   Ibid. Based on this determination, the District Court concluded that it was permitted to consider the ineffective-assistance claim in its entirety, and ordered an evidentiary hearing. Id. at 1385. After that hearing, the court, in an unpublished


   memorandum and order, dismissed the claim on the merits, although it characterized the case as "a close and difficult" one. App. 45.

   The Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal, 822 F.2d 684 (CA7 1987), but did not reach the merits, because, in disagreement with the District Court, it believed the ineffective-assistance claim to be procedurally barred. Considering the Illinois Appellate Court's order "ambiguous" because it contained "neither an explicit finding of waiver nor an expression of an intention to ignore waiver," the Court of Appeals nonetheless asserted that a reviewing court "should try to assess the state court's intention to the extent that this is possible." Id. at 687. Undertaking this effort, the Court of Appeals concluded that the order "suggest[ed]" an intention "to find all grounds waived except that pertaining to the alibi witnesses." Ibid. Based on this interpretation of the order, the Court of Appeals concluded that the merits of petitioner's federal claim had been reached only "as an alternate holding," ibid., and considered itself precluded from reviewing the merits of the claim. [Footnote 3]

   Concurring separately, Judge Cudahy stated:

   "Rather than attempting to divine the unspoken 'intent' of [the state] court, I think we should invoke a presumption that waiver not clearly found has been condoned."

   Ibid.

   The disagreement between the majority and the concurrence reflects a conflict among the Courts of Appeals over the standard for determining whether a state court's ambiguous invocation of a procedural default bars federal habeas review. [Footnote 4]


   We granted certiorari to resolve this conflict. 485 U.S. 934 (1988).


   The confusion among the courts evidently stems from a failure to recognize that the procedural default rule of Wainwright v. Sykes has its historical and theoretical basis in the "adequate and independent state ground" doctrine. 433 U.S. at 433 U. S. 78-79, 433 U. S. 81-82, 433 U. S. 87. [Footnote 5] Once the lineage of the rule is clarified, the cure for the confusion becomes apparent.

   A

   This Court long has held that it will not consider an issue of federal law on direct review from a judgment of a state court if that judgment rests on a state law ground that is both "independent" of the merits of the federal claim and an "adequate" basis for the court's decision. See, e.g., Fox Film Corp. v. Muller, 296 U. S. 207, 296 U. S. 210 (1935); Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall. 590, 87 U. S. 635-636 (1875). Although this doctrine originated in the context of state court judgments


   for which the alternative state and federal grounds were both "substantive" in nature, the doctrine "has been applied routinely to state decisions forfeiting federal claims for violation of state procedural rules." Meltzer, State Court Forfeitures of Federal Rights, 99 Harv.L.Rev. 1128, 1134 (1986). [Footnote 6]

   The question whether a state court's reference to state law constitutes an adequate and independent state ground for its judgment may be rendered difficult by ambiguity in the state court's opinion. In Michigan v. Long, 463 U. S. 1032 (1983), this Court laid down a rule to avoid the difficulties associated with such ambiguity. Under Long, if "it fairly appears that the state court rested its decision primarily on federal law," this Court may reach the federal question on review unless the state court's opinion contains a "plain statement' that [its] decision rests upon adequate and independent state grounds." Id. at 1042. [Footnote 7]

   The Long "plain statement" rule applies regardless of whether the disputed state law ground is substantive (as it was in Long) or procedural, as in Caldwell v. Mississippi, 472 U. S. 320, 472 U. S. 327 (1985). Thus, the mere fact that a federal claimant failed to abide by a state procedural rule does not, in and of itself, prevent this Court from reaching the federal claim: "[T]he state court must actually have relied on the procedural bar as an independent basis for its disposition of the


   case." Ibid. Furthermore, ambiguities in that regard must be resolved by application of the Long standard. Id. at 472 U. S. 328.

   The adequate and independent state ground doctrine, and the problem of ambiguity resolved by Long, are of concern not only in cases on direct review pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 1257, but also in federal habeas corpus proceedings pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2254.

   Wainwright v. Sykes made clear that the adequate and independent state ground doctrine applies on federal habeas. 433 U.S. at 433 U. S. 81, 433 U. S. 87. See also Ulster County Court v. Allen, 442 U. S. 140, 442 U. S. 148 (1979). Under Sykes and its progeny, an adequate and independent finding of procedural default will bar federal habeas review of the federal claim unless the habeas petitioner can show "cause" for the default and "prejudice attributable thereto," Murray v. Carrier, 477 U. S. 478, 477 U. S. 485 (1986), or demonstrate that failure to consider the federal claim will result in a "fundamental miscarriage of justice.'" Id. at 477 U. S. 495, quoting Engle v. Isaac, 456 U. S. 107, 456 U. S. 135 (1982). See also Smith v. Murray, 477 U. S. 527, 477 U. S. 537 (1986).

   Conversely, a federal claimant's procedural default precludes federal habeas review, like direct review, only if the last state court rendering a judgment in the case rests its judgment on the procedural default. See Caldwell v. Mississippi, 472 U.S. at 472 U. S. 327; Ulster County Court v. Allen, 442 U.S. at 442 U. S. 152-154. Moreover, the question whether the state court indeed has done so is sometimes as difficult to answer on habeas review as on direct review. Just as this Court under § 1257 encounters state court opinions that are unclear on this point, so too do the federal courts under § 2254. [Footnote 8]

   Habeas review thus presents the same problem of ambiguity that this Court resolved in Michigan v. Long. We held in


   Long that, unless the state court clearly expressed its reliance on an adequate and independent state law ground, this Court may address a federal issue considered by the state court. We applied that rule in Caldwell v. Mississippi, 472 U.S. at 472 U. S. 327, to a "somewhat cryptic" reference to procedural default in a state court opinion.

   Although Long and Caldwell arose on direct review, the principles underlying those decisions are not limited to direct review. Indeed, our opinion in Caldwell relied heavily upon our earlier application of the adequate and independent state ground doctrine to habeas review in Ulster County. See Caldwell, 472 U.S. at 472 U. S. 327-328. Caldwell thus indicates that the problem of ambiguous state court references to state law, which led to the adoption of the Long "plain statement" rule, is common to both direct and habeas review. Faced with a common problem, we adopt a common solution: a procedural default does not bar consideration of a federal claim on either direct or habeas review unless the last state court rendering a judgment in the case "clearly and expressly'" states that its judgment rests on a state procedural bar. Caldwell, 472 U.S. at 472 U. S. 327, quoting Long, 463 U.S. at 463 U. S. 1041. [Footnote 9]

   C

   Respondents, however, urge us to adopt a different rule for habeas cases, arguing that, if a state court decision is ambiguous as to whether the judgment rests on a procedural


   bar, the federal court should presume that it does. Respondents claim that applying the Long "plain statement" requirement to habeas cases would harm the interests of finality, federalism, and comity. This Court has been alert in recognizing that federal habeas review touches upon these significant state interests. Wainwright v. Sykes itself reveals this. See 433 U.S. at 433 U. S. 90-91. We believe, however, that applying Long to habeas burdens those interests only minimally, if at all. The benefits, in contrast, are substantial.

   A state court remains free under the Long rule to rely on a state procedural bar, and thereby to foreclose federal habeas review to the extent permitted by Sykes. [Footnote 10] Requiring a state court to be explicit in its reliance on a procedural default does not interfere unduly with state judicial decisionmaking. As Long itself recognized, it would be more intrusive for a federal court to second-guess a state court's determination of state law. 463 U.S. at 463 U. S. 1041. Moreover, state courts have become familiar with the "plain statement" requirement under Long and Caldwell. Under our decision today, a state court need do nothing more to preclude habeas review than it must do to preclude direct review.

   In contrast, respondents' proposed rule would impose substantial burdens on the federal courts. At oral argument, counsel for respondents conceded that, in some circumstances, under their proposal, the federal habeas court would be forced to examine the state court record to determine


   whether procedural default was argued to the state court, or would be required to undertake an extensive analysis of state law to determine whether a procedural bar was potentially applicable to the particular case. See Tr. of Oral Arg. 28-29. Much time would be lost in reviewing legal and factual issues that the state court, familiar with state law and the record before it, is better suited to address expeditiously. The "plain statement" requirement achieves the important objective of permitting the federal court rapidly to identify whether federal issues are properly presented before it. Respondents' proposed rule would not do that. [Footnote 11]

   Thus, we are not persuaded that we should depart from Long and Caldwell simply because this is a habeas case. Having extended the adequate and independent state ground doctrine to habeas cases, we now extend to habeas review the "plain statement" rule for determining whether a state court has relied on an adequate and independent state ground. [Footnote 12]



   Applying the "plain statement" requirement in this case, we conclude that the Illinois Appellate Court did not "clearly and expressly" rely on waiver as a ground for rejecting any aspect of petitioner's ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim. Michigan v. Long, 463 U.S. at 463 U. S. 1041. To be sure, the state court perhaps laid the foundation for such a holding by stating that most of petitioner's allegations "could have been raised [on] direct appeal." App. 12. Nonetheless, as the Court of Appeals recognized, this statement falls short of an explicit reliance on a state law ground. [Footnote 13] Accordingly, this reference to state law would not have precluded our addressing petitioner's claim had it arisen on direct review. As is now established, it also does not preclude habeas review by the District Court.

   The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

   It is so ordered.
