   Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.

   The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), 52Stat. 1060, as amended, 29 U. S. C. §201 et seq., requires employers to pay overtime compensation to covered employees. The FLSA exempts from the overtime-pay requirement "any salesman, partsman, or mechanic primarily engaged in selling or servicing automobiles" at a covered dealership. §213(b)(10)(A). We granted certiorari to decide whether this exemption applies to service advisors--employees at car dealerships who consult with customers about their servicing needs and sell them servicing solutions. We conclude that service advisors are exempt.


   A

   Enacted in 1938, the FLSA requires employers to pay overtime to covered employees who work more than 40 hours in a week. 29 U. S. C. §207(a). But the FLSA exempts many categories of employees from this requirement. See §213. Employees at car dealerships have long been among those exempted.

   Congress initially exempted all employees at car dealerships from the overtime-pay requirement. See Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1961, §9, 75Stat. 73. Congress then narrowed that exemption to cover "any salesman, partsman, or mechanic primarily engaged in selling or servicing automobiles, trailers, trucks, farm implements, or aircraft." Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1966, §209, 80Stat. 836. In 1974, Congress enacted the version of the exemption at issue here. It provides that the FLSA's overtime-pay requirement does not apply to "any salesman, partsman, or mechanic primarily engaged in selling or servicing automobiles, trucks, or farm implements, if he is employed by a nonmanufacturing establishment primarily engaged in the business of selling such vehicles or implements to ultimate purchasers." §213(b)(10)(A).

   This language has long been understood to cover service advisors. Although the Department of Labor initially interpreted it to exclude them, 35 Fed. Reg. 5896 (1970) (codified at 29 CFR §779.372(c)(4) (1971)), the federal courts rejected that view, see Brennan v. Deel Motors, Inc., 475 F. 2d 1095 (CA5 1973); Brennan v. North Bros. Ford, Inc., 76 CCH LC ¶33, 247 (ED Mich. 1975), aff'd sub nom. Dunlop v. North Bros. Ford, Inc., 529 F. 2d 524 (CA6 1976) (table). After these decisions, the Department issued an opinion letter in 1978, explaining that service advisors are exempt in most cases. See Dept. of Labor, Wage & Hour Div., Opinion Letter No. 1520 (WH-467) (1978), [1978-1981 Transfer Binder] CCH Wages-Hours Administrative Rulings ¶31,207. From 1978 to 2011, Congress made no changes to the exemption, despite amending §213 nearly a dozen times. The Department also continued to acquiesce in the view that service advisors are exempt. See Dept. of Labor, Wage & Hour Div., Field Operations
   Handbook, Insert No. 1757, 24L04(k) (Oct. 20, 1987), online at https://perma.cc/5GHD-KCJJ (as last visited Mar. 28, 2018).

   In 2011, however, the Department reversed course. It issued a rule that interpreted "salesman" to exclude service advisors. 76 Fed. Reg. 18832, 18859 (2011) (codified at 29 CFR §779.372(c)). That regulation prompted this litigation.

   B

   Petitioner Encino Motorcars, LLC, is a Mercedes-Benz dealership in California. Respondents are current and former service advisors for petitioner. Service advisors "interact with customers and sell them services for their vehicles." Encino Motorcars, LLC v. Navarro, 579 U. S. ___, ___ (2016) (Encino I) (slip op., at 2). They "mee[t] customers; liste[n] to their concerns about their cars; sugges[t] repair and maintenance services; sel[l] new accessories or replacement parts; recor[d] service orders; follo[w] up with customers as the services are performed (for instance, if new problems are discovered); and explai[n] the repair and maintenance work when customers return for their vehicles." Ibid.

   In 2012, respondents sued petitioner for backpay. Relying on the Department's 2011 regulation, respondents alleged that petitioner had violated the FLSA by failing to pay them overtime. Petitioner moved to dismiss, arguing that service advisors are exempt under §213(b)(10)(A). The District Court agreed with petitioner and dismissed the complaint, but the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed. Finding the text ambiguous and the legislative history "inconclusive," the Ninth Circuit deferred to the Department's 2011 rule under Chevron U. S. A. Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc., 467 U. S. 837 (1984) . Encino, 780 F. 3d 1267, 1275 (2015).

   We granted certiorari and vacated the Ninth Circuit's judgment. We explained that courts cannot defer to the 2011 rule because it is procedurally defective. See Encino I, 579 U. S., at ___-___ (slip op., at 8-12). Specifically, the regulation undermined significant reliance interests in the automobile industry by changing the treatment of service advisors without a sufficiently reasoned explanation. Id., at ___ (slip op., at 10). But we did not decide whether, without administrative deference, the exemption covers service advisors. Id., at ___ (slip op., at 12). We remanded that issue for the Ninth Circuit to address in the first instance. Ibid.

   C

   On remand, the Ninth Circuit again held that the exemption does not include service advisors. The Court of Appeals agreed that a service advisor is a " `salesman' " in a "generic sense," 845 F. 3d 925, 930 (2017), and is " `primarily engaged in . . . servicing automobiles' " in a "general sense," id., at 931. Nonetheless, it concluded that "Congress did not intend to exempt service advisors." Id., at 929.

   The Ninth Circuit began by noting that the Department's 1966-1967 Occupational Outlook Handbook listed 12 job titles in the table of contents that could be found at a car dealership, including "automobile mechanics," "automobile parts countermen," "automobile salesmen," and "automobile service advisors." Id., at 930. Because the FLSA exemption listed three of these positions, but not service advisors, the Ninth Circuit concluded that service advisors are not exempt. Ibid. The Ninth Circuit also determined that service advisors are not primarily engaged in "servicing" automobiles, which it defined to mean "only those who are actually occupied in the repair and maintenance of cars." Id., at 931. And the Ninth Circuit further concluded that the exemption does not cover salesmen who are primarily engaged in servicing. Id., at 933. In reaching this conclusion, the Ninth Circuit invoked the distributive canon. See A. Scalia & B. Garner, Reading Law 214 (2012) ("Distributive phrasing applies each
   expression to its appropriate referent"). It reasoned that "Congress intended the gerunds--selling and servicing--to be distributed to their appropriate subjects--salesman, partsman, and mechanic. A salesman sells; a partsman services; and a mechanic services." Id., at 934. Finally, the Court of Appeals noted that its interpretation was supported by the principle that exemptions to the FLSA should be construed narrowly, id., at 935, and the lack of any "mention of service advisors" in the legislative history, id., at 939.

   We granted certiorari, 582 U. S. ___ (2017), and now reverse.


   The FLSA exempts from its overtime-pay requirement "any salesman, partsman, or mechanic primarily engaged in selling or servicing automobiles, trucks, or farm implements, if he is employed by a nonmanufacturing establishment primarily engaged in the business of selling such vehicles or implements to ultimate purchasers." §213(b)(10)(A). The parties agree that petitioner is a "nonmanufacturing establishment primarily engaged in the business of selling [automobiles] to ultimate purchasers." The parties also agree that a service advisor is not a "partsman" or "mechanic," and that a service advisor is not "primarily engaged . . . in selling automobiles." The question, then, is whether service advisors are "salesm[e]n . . . primarily engaged in . . . servicing automobiles." We conclude that they are. Under the best reading of the text, service advisors are "salesm[e]n," and they are "primarily engaged in . . . servicing automobiles." The distributive canon, the practice of construing FLSA
   exemptions narrowly, and the legislative history do not persuade us otherwise.

   A

   A service advisor is obviously a "salesman." The term "salesman" is not defined in the statute, so "we give the term its ordinary meaning." Taniguchi v. Kan Pacific Saipan, Ltd., 566 U. S. 560, 566 (2012) . The ordinary meaning of "salesman" is someone who sells goods or services. See 14 Oxford English Dictionary 391 (2d ed. 1989) ("[a] man whose business it is to sell goods or conduct sales"); Random House Dictionary of the English Language 1262 (1966) ("a man who sells goods, services, etc."). Service advisors do precisely that. As this Court previously explained, service advisors "sell [customers] services for their vehicles." Encino I, 579 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 2).

   B

   Service advisors are also "primarily engaged in . . . servicing automobiles." §213(b)(10)(A). The word "servicing" in this context can mean either "the action of maintaining or repairing a motor vehicle" or "[t]he action of providing a service." 15 Oxford English Dictionary, at 39; see also Random House Dictionary of the English Language, at 1304 ("to make fit for use; repair; restore to condition for service"). Service advisors satisfy both definitions. Service advisors are integral to the servicing process. They "mee[t] customers; liste[n] to their concerns about their cars; sugges[t] repair and maintenance services; sel[l] new accessories or replacement parts; recor[d] service orders; follo[w] up with customers as the services are performed (for instance, if new problems are discovered); and explai[n] the repair and maintenance work when customers return for their vehicles." Encino I, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 2). If you ask the average customer who services his car, the primary, and
   perhaps only, person he is likely to identify is his service advisor.

   True, service advisors do not spend most of their time physically repairing automobiles. But the statutory language is not so constrained. All agree that partsmen, for example, are "primarily engaged in . . . servicing automobiles." Brief for Petitioner 40; Brief for Respondents 41-44. But partsmen, like service advisors, do not spend most of their time under the hood. Instead, they "obtain the vehicle parts . . . and provide those parts to the mechanics." Encino I, supra, at ___ (slip op., at 2); see also 1 Dept. of Labor, Dictionary of Occupational Titles 33 (3d ed. 1965) (defining "partsman" as someone who "[p]urchases, stores, and issues spare parts for automotive and industrial equipment"). In other words, the phrase "primarily engaged in . . . servicing automobiles" must include some individuals who do not physically repair automobiles themselves but who are integrally involved in the servicing process. That description applies to partsmen and service advisors alike.

   C

   The Ninth Circuit concluded that service advisors are not covered because the exemption simply does not apply to "salesm[e]n . . . primarily engaged in . . . servicing automobiles." The Ninth Circuit invoked the distributive canon to reach this conclusion. Using that canon, it matched "salesman" with "selling" and "partsma[n] [and] mechanic" with "servicing." We reject this reasoning.

   The text of the exemption covers "any salesman, partsman, or mechanic primarily engaged in selling or servicing automobiles, trucks, or farm implements." §213(b)(10)(A). The exemption uses the word "or" to connect all of its nouns and gerunds, and "or" is "almost always disjunctive." United States v. Woods, 571 U. S. 31, 45 (2013) . Thus, the use of "or" to join "selling" and "servicing" suggests that the exemption covers a salesman primarily engaged in either activity.

   Unsurprisingly, statutory context can overcome the ordinary, disjunctive meaning of "or." The distributive canon, for example, recognizes that sometimes "[w]here a sentence contains several antecedents and several consequents," courts should "read them distributively and apply the words to the subjects which, by context, they seem most properly to relate." 2A N. Singer & S. Singer, Sutherland Statutes and Statutory Construction §47:26, p. 448 (rev. 7th ed. 2014).

   But here, context favors the ordinary disjunctive meaning of "or" for at least three reasons. First, the distributive canon has the most force when the statute allows for one-to-one matching. But here, the distributive canon would mix and match some of three nouns--"salesman, partsman, or mechanic"--with one of two gerunds--"selling or servicing." §213(b)(10)(A). We doubt that a legislative drafter would leave it to the reader to figure out the precise combinations. Second, the distributive canon has the most force when an ordinary, disjunctive reading is linguistically impossible. Cf., e.g., Huidekoper's Lessee v. Douglass, 3 Cranch 1, 67 (1805) (Marshall, C. J.) (applying the distributive canon when a purely disjunctive reading "would involve a contradiction in terms"). But as explained above, the phrase "salesman . . . primarily engaged in . . . servicing automobiles" not only makes sense; it is an apt description of a service advisor. Third, a narrow distributive phrasing is an
   unnatural fit here because the entire exemption bespeaks breadth. It begins with the word "any." See Ali v. Federal Bureau of Prisons, 552 U. S. 214, 219 (2008) (noting the "expansive meaning" of "any"). And it uses the disjunctive word "or" three times. In fact, all agree that the third list in the exemption--"automobiles, trucks, or farm implements"--modifies every other noun and gerund. But it would be odd to read the exemption as starting with a distributive phrasing and then, halfway through and without warning, switching to a disjunctive phrasing--all the while using the same word ("or") to signal both meanings. See Brown v. Gardner, 513 U. S. 115, 118 (1994) (noting the "vigorous" presumption that, "when a term is repeated within a given sentence," it "is used to mean the same thing"). The more natural reading is that the exemption covers any combination of its nouns, gerunds, and objects.

   D

   The Ninth Circuit also invoked the principle that exemptions to the FLSA should be construed narrowly. 845 F. 3d, at 935-936. We reject this principle as a useful guidepost for interpreting the FLSA. Because the FLSA gives no "textual indication" that its exemptions should be construed narrowly, "there is no reason to give [them] anything other than a fair (rather than a `narrow') interpretation." Scalia, Reading Law, at 363. The narrow-construction principle relies on the flawed premise that the FLSA " `pursues' " its remedial purpose " `at all costs.' " American Express Co. v. Italian Colors Restaurant, 570 U. S. 228, 234 (2013) (quoting Rodriguez v. United States, 480 U. S. 522 -526 (1987) (per curiam)); see also Henson v. Santander Consumer USA Inc., 582 U. S. ___, ___ (2017) (slip op., at 9) ("[I]t is quite mistaken to assume . . . that whatever might appear to further the statute's primary objective must be the law" (internal quotation marks and alterations omitted)). But the FLSA has
   over two dozen exemptions in §213(b) alone, including the one at issue here. Those exemptions are as much a part of the FLSA's purpose as the overtime-pay requirement. See id., at ___ (slip op., at 9) ("Legislation is, after all, the art of compromise, the limitations expressed in statutory terms often the price of passage"). We thus have no license to give the exemption anything but a fair reading.

   E

   Finally, the Ninth Circuit relied on two extraneous sources to support its interpretation: the Department's 1966-1967 Occupational Outlook Handbook and the FLSA's legislative history. We find neither persuasive.


   The Ninth Circuit first relied on the Department's 1966-1967 Occupational Outlook Handbook. It identified 12 jobs from the Handbook's table of contents that it thought could be found at automobile dealerships. See 845 F. 3d, at 930. The Ninth Circuit then stressed that the exemption aligns with three of those job titles--"[a]utomobile mechanics," "[a]utomobile parts countermen," and "[a]utomobile salesmen"--but not "[a]utomobile service advisors." Ibid.

   The Ninth Circuit cited nothing, however, suggesting that the exemption was meant to align with the job titles listed in the Handbook. To the contrary, the exemption applies to "any salesman . . . primarily engaged in selling or servicing automobiles." It is not limited, like the term in the Handbook, to "automobile salesmen." And the ordinary meaning of "salesman" plainly includes service advisors.


   The Ninth Circuit also relied on legislative history to support its interpretation. See id., at 936-939. Specifi- cally, it noted that the legislative history discusses "automobile salesmen, partsmen, and mechanics" but never discusses service advisors. Id., at 939. Although the Ninth Circuit had previously found that same legislative history "inconclusive," Encino, 780 F. 3d, at 1275, on remand it was "firmly persuaded" that the legislative history demonstrated Congress' desire to exclude service advisors, 845 F. 3d, at 939.

   The Ninth Circuit was right the first time. As we have explained, the best reading of the statute is that service advisors are exempt. Even for those Members of this Court who consider legislative history, silence in the legislative history, "no matter how `clanging,' " cannot defeat the better reading of the text and statutory context. Sedima, S. P. R. L. v. Imrex Co., 473 U. S. 479 , n. 13 (1985). If the text is clear, it needs no repetition in the legislative history; and if the text is ambiguous, silence in the legislative history cannot lend any clarity. See Avco Corp. v. Department of Justice, 884 F. 2d 621, 625 (CADC 1989). Even if Congress did not foresee all of the applications of the statute, that is no reason not to give the statutory text a fair reading. See Union Bank v. Wolas, 502 U. S. 151, 158 (1991) .

   *  *  *

   In sum, we conclude that service advisors are exempt from the overtime-pay requirement of the FLSA because they are "salesm[e]n . . . primarily engaged in . . . servicing automobiles." §213(b)(10)(A). Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

   It is so ordered.
