   Justice Scalia delivered the opinion of the Court.

   Federal law prohibits States from imposing taxes that discriminat[e] against a rail carrier. 49 U. S. C. 11501(b)(4). We are asked to decide whether a State violates this prohibition by taxing diesel fuel purchases made by a rail carrier while exempting similar purchases made by its competitors; and if so, whether the violation is eliminated when other tax provisions offset the challenged treatment of railroads.


   Alabama taxes businesses and individuals for the purchase or use of personal property. Ala. Code 40 23 2(1), 40 23 61(a) (2011). Alabama law sets the general tax rate at 4% of the value of the property purchased or used. Ibid.

   The State applies the tax, at the usual 4% rate, to railroads purchase or use of diesel fuel for their rail operations. But it exempts from the tax purchases and uses of diesel fuel made by trucking transport companies (whom we will call motor carriers) and companies that transport goods interstate through navigable waters (water carriers). Motor carriers instead pay a 19-cent-per-gallon fuel-excise tax on diesel; water carriers pay neither the sales nor fuel-excise tax on their diesel. 40 17 325(a)(2), and (b); 40 23 4(a)(10) (2014 Cum. Supp.). The parties stipulate that rail carriers, motor carriers, and water carriers compete.

   Respondent CSX Transportation, a rail carrier operating in Alabama and other States, believes this asymmetrical tax treatment discriminates against a rail carrier in violation of the alliterative Railroad Revitalization and Regulation Reform Act of 1976, or 4 R Act. 49 U. S. C. 11501(b)(4). It sought to enjoin petitioners, the Alabama Department of Revenue and its Commissioner (Alabama or State), from collecting sales tax on its diesel fuelpurchases.

   At first, the District Court and Eleventh Circuit both rejected CSX s complaint. CSX Transp., Inc. v. Alabama Dept. of Revenue, 350 Fed. Appx. 318 (2009). On this lawsuit s first trip here, we reversed. We rejected the State s argument that sales-and-use tax exemptions cannot discriminate within the meaning of subsection (b)(4), and remanded the case for further proceedings. CSX Transp., Inc. v. Alabama Dept. of Revenue, 562 U. S. 277 297 (2011) (CSX I).

   On remand, the District Court rejected CSX s claim after a trial. 892 F. Supp. 2d 1300 (ND Ala. 2012). The Eleventh Circuit reversed. 720 F. 3d 863 (2013). It held that, on CSX s challenge, CSX could establish discrimination by showing the State taxed rail carriers differently than their competitors which, by stipulation, included motor carriers and water carriers. But it rejected Alabama s argument that the fuel-excise taxes offset the sales taxes in other words, that because it imposed its fuel-excise tax on motor carriers, but not rail carriers, it was justified in imposing the sales tax on rail carriers, but not motor carriers. Ibid.

   We granted certiorari to resolve whether the Eleventh Circuit properly regarded CSX s competitors as an appropriate comparison class for its subsection (b)(4) claim. 573 U. S. ___ (2014). We also directed the parties to address whether, when resolving a claim of unlawful tax discrimination, a court should consider aspects of a State s tax scheme apart from the challenged provision. Ibid.


   The 4 R Act provides:

   (b) The following acts unreasonably burden and discriminate against interstate commerce, and a State, subdivision of a State, or authority acting for a State or subdivision of a State may not do any of them:

   (1) Assess rail transportation property at a value that has a higher ratio to the true market value of the rail transportation property than the ratio that the assessed value of other commercial and industrial property in the same assessment jurisdiction has to the true market value of the other commercial and industrial property.

   (2) Levy or collect a tax that may not be made under paragraph (1) of this subsection.

   (3) Levy or collect an ad valorem property tax at a tax rate that exceeds the tax rate applicable to commercial and industrial property in the same assessment jurisdiction.

   (4) Impose another tax that discriminates against a rail carrier providing transportation subject to thejurisdiction of the Board under this part. 11501(b)(1) (4).

   In our last opinion in this case, we held that discriminates in subsection (b)(4) carries its ordinary meaning, and that a tax discriminates under subsection (b)(4) when it treats groups [that] are similarly situated differently without sufficient justification for the difference in treatment. CSX I, supra, at 287. Here, we address the meaning of these two quoted phrases.

   A

   The first question in this case is who is the comparison class for purposes of a subsection (b)(4) claim. Alabama argues that the only appropriate comparison class for a subsection (b)(4) claim is all general commercial and industrial taxpayers. We disagree. While all general and commercial taxpayers is an appropriate comparison class, it is not the only one.

   Nothing in the ordinary meaning of the word discrimination suggests that it occurs only when the victim is singled out relative to the population at large. If, for example, a State offers free college education to all returning combat veterans, but arbitrarily excepts those who served in the Marines, we would say that Marines have experienced discrimination. That would remain the case even though the Marines are treated the same way as members of the general public, who have to pay for their education.

   Context confirms that the comparison class for subsection (b)(4) is not limited as Alabama suggests. The 4 R Act is an asymmetrical statute. Id., at 296. Subsections (b)(1) to (b)(3) contain three specific prohibitions directed towards property taxes. Each requires comparison of railroad property to commercial and industrial property in the same assessment jurisdiction. The Act therefore limits the comparison class for challenges under those provisions. Even if the jurisdiction treats railroads less favor-ably than residential property, no violation of these subsec-tions has occurred. Subsection (b)(4) contains no such limitation, leaving the comparison class to be determined as it is normally determined with respect to discrimination claims. And we think that depends on the theory of discrimination alleged in the claim. When a railroad alleges that a tax targets it for worse treatment than local businesses, all other commercial and industrial taxpayers are the comparison class. When a
   railroad alleges that a tax disadvantages it compared to its competitors in the transportation industry, the railroad s competitors in that jurisdiction are the comparison class.

   So, picking a comparison class is extraordinarily easy. Unlike under subsections (b)(1) (3), the railroad is not limited to all commercial and industrial taxpayers; all the world, or at least all the world within the taxing jurisdiction, is its comparison-class oyster. But that is not as generous a concession as might seem. What subsection (b)(4) requires, and subsections (b)(1) (3) do not, is a showing of discrimination of a failure to treat similarly situated persons alike. A comparison class will thus support a discrimination claim only if it consists of individuals similarly situated to the claimant.

   That raises the question of when a proposed comparison class qualifies as similarly situated. In the Equal Protection Clause context, very few taxpayers are regarded as similarly situated and thus entitled to equal treatment. There, a State may tax different lines of businesses differently with near-impunity, even if they are apparently similar. We have upheld or approved of distinctions between utilities including a railroad and other corporations, New York Rapid Transit Corp. v. City of New York, 303 U. S. 573, 579 (1938) , between wholesalers and retailers in goods, Caskey Baking Co. v. Virginia, 313 U. S. 117 121 (1941), between chain retail stores and independent retail stores, State Bd. of Tax Comm rs of Ind. v. Jackson, 283 U. S. 527 542 (1931), between anthracite coal mines and bituminous coal mines, Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co., 260 U. S. 245, 254, 257 (1922) , and between sellers of coal oil and sellers of coal, Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 121 (1910) . As one
   treatise has observed, we recognize a wide latitude state legislatures enjoy in drawing tax classifications under the Equal Protection Clause. 1 J. Hellerstein & W. Hellerstein, State Taxation 3.03[1], p. 3 5 (3d ed. 2001 2005). This includes the power to impose widely different taxes on various trades or professions. Id., at 3 5 to 3 6. It would be permissible as far as the Equal Protection Clause is concerned for a State to tax a rail carrier more than a motor carrier, despite the seeming similarity in their lines of business.

   The concept of similarly situated individuals cannot be so narrow here. That would deprive subsection (b)(4) of all real-world effect, providing protection that the Equal Protection Clause already provides. Moreover, the cate-gory of similarly situated (b)(4) comparison classes must include commercial and industrial taxpayers. There is no conceivable reason why the statute would forbid property taxes higher than what that class enjoys (or suffers), but permit other taxes that discriminate in favor of that class vis- -vis railroads. And we think the competitors of railroads can be another similarly situated comparison class, since discrimination in favor of that class most obviously frustrates the purpose of the 4 R Act, which was to restore the financial stability of the railway system of the United States, 101(a), 90Stat. 33, while foster[ing] competition among all carriers by railroad and other modes of transportation, 101(b)(2). We need not, and thus do not, express any opinion on what
   other comparison classes may qualify. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.

   Alabama claims that because subsections (b)(1) and (b)(3) (and (b)(2) through reference to (b)(1)) establish a comparison class of commercial and industrial property, subsection (b)(4) must establish a comparison class of general commercial and industrial taxpayers. This inverts normal rules of interpretation, which would say that the explicit limitation to commercial and industrial in the first three provisions, and the absence of such a limitation in the fourth, suggests that no such limitation applies to the fourth. Moreover, Alabama s interpretation would require us to dragoon the modifier commercial and industrial but not the noun property from the first three provisions, append general in front of it and taxpayers after, both words foreign to the preceding subsections. We might also have to strip away the restrictions in the definition of commercial and industrial property, which excludes land primarily used for agricultural purposes and timber growing. 49 U. S. C. 11501(a)(4). This
   is not our concept of fidelity to a statute s text.

   Alabama responds that the introductory clause of 11501(b) which declares that the following acts unreasonably burden and discriminate against interstate commerce, binds its four subsections together, Brief for Petitioners 23 (emphasis deleted), and gives them a common object and scope. The last time this case appeared before us, Alabama made a similar argument in support of the claim that, because subsections (b)(1) (3) cover only property taxes, so too does subsection (b)(4). See Brief for Respondents in CSX Transp., Inc. v. Alabama Dept. of Revenue, O. T. 2010, No. 09 520, p. 25 26. We rejected this argument then, and we reject it again now.

   Alabama persists that a case-specific inquiry allows a railroad to hand-pick [its] comparison class, Brief for Petitioners 41, which would be unfair a windfall to railroads. Ibid. As we have described above, picking a class is easy, but it is not easy to establish that the selected class is similarly situated for purposes of discrimina-tion in taxation. The Eleventh Circuit properly concluded that, in light of CSX Transportation s complaint and the parties stipulation, a comparison class of competitors consisting of motor carriers and water carriers was appropriate, and differential treatment vis- -vis that class would constitute discrimination. We therefore turn tothe court s refusal to consider Alabama s alternative tax justifications.

   B

   A State s tax discriminates only where the State cannot sufficiently justify differences in treatment between similarly situated taxpayers. As we have discussed above, a rail carrier and its competitors can be considered similarly situated for purposes of this provision. But what about the claim that those competitors are subject to other taxes that the railroads avoid? We think Alabama can justify its decision to exempt motor carriers from its sales and use tax through its decision to subject motor carriers to a fuel-excise tax.

   It does not accord with ordinary English usage to say that a tax discriminates against a rail carrier if a rival who is exempt from that tax must pay another comparable tax from which the rail carrier is exempt. If that were true, both competitors could claim to be disfavored discriminated against relative to each other. Our negative Commerce Clause cases endorse the proposition that an additional tax on third parties may justify an otherwise discriminatory tax. Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472 480 (1932). We think that an alternative, roughly equivalent tax is one possible justification that rendersa tax disparity nondiscriminatory.

   CSX claims that because the statutory prohibition forbids impos[ing] another tax that discriminates against a rail carrier, 49 U. S. C. 11501(b)(4) tax in the singular the appropriate inquiry is whether the challenged tax discriminates, not whether the tax code as a whole does so. It is undoubtedly correct that the tax (singular) must discriminate but it does not discriminate unless it treats railroads differently from other similarly situated taxpayers without sufficient justification. A comparable tax levied on a competitor may justify not extending that competitor s exemption from a general tax to a railroad. It is easy to display the error of CSX s single-tax-provision approach. Under that model, the following tax would violate the 4 R Act: (1) All railroads shall pay a 4% sales tax. (2) All other individuals shall also pay a 4% sales tax.

   CSX would undoubtedly object that not every case will be so easy, and that federal courts are ill qualified to explore the vagaries of state tax law. We are inclined to agree, but that cannot carry the day. Congress assigned this task to the courts by drafting an antidiscrimination command in such sweeping terms. There is simply no discrimination when there are roughly comparable taxes. If the task of determining when that is so is Sisyphean, as the Eleventh Circuit called it, 720 F. 3d, at 871, it is a Sisyphean task that the statute imposes. We therefore cannot approve of the Eleventh Circuit s refusal to consider Alabama s tax-based justification, and remand for that court to consider whether Alabama s fuel-excise tax is the rough equivalent of Alabama s sales tax as applied to diesel fuel, and therefore justifies the motor carrier sales-tax exemption.

   C

   While the State argues that the existence of a fuel-excise tax justifies its decision to exempt motor carriers from the sales and use tax, it cannot offer a similar defense with respect to its exemption for water carriers. Water carriers pay neither tax.

   The State, however, offers other justifications for the water carrier exemption for example, that such an exemption is compelled by federal law. The Eleventh Circuit failed to examine these justifications, asserting that the water carriers were the beneficiaries of a discriminatory tax regime. We do not consider whether Alabama s alternative rationales justify its exemption, but leave that question for the Eleventh Circuit on remand.

   * * *

   The judgment of the Eleventh Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

   It is so ordered.
