   Justice Thomas delivered the opinion of the Court.

   The California Reproductive Freedom, Accountability, Comprehensive Care, and Transparency Act (FACT Act) requires clinics that primarily serve pregnant women to provide certain notices. Cal. Health & Safety Code Ann. §123470 et seq. (West 2018). Licensed clinics must notify women that California provides free or low-cost services, including abortions, and give them a phone number to call. Unlicensed clinics must notify women that California has not licensed the clinics to provide medical services. The question in this case is whether these notice requirements violate the First Amendment.


   A

   The California State Legislature enacted the FACT Act to regulate crisis pregnancy centers. Crisis pregnancy centers--according to a report commissioned by the California State Assembly, App. 86--are "pro-life (largely Christian belief-based) organizations that offer a limited range of free pregnancy options, counseling, and other services to individuals that visit a center." Watters et al., Pregnancy Resource Centers: Ensuring Access and Accuracy of Information 4 (2011). "[U]nfortunately," the author of the FACT Act stated, "there are nearly 200 licensed and unlicensed" crisis pregnancy centers in California. App. 84. These centers "aim to discourage and prevent women from seeking abortions." Id., at 85. The author of the FACT Act observed that crisis pregnancy centers "are commonly affiliated with, or run by organizations whose stated goal" is to oppose abortion--including "the National Institute of Family and Life Advocates," one of the petitioners here. Ibid. To address this perceived
   problem, the FACT Act imposes two notice requirements on facilities that provide pregnancy-related services--one for licensed facilities and one for unlicensed facilities.


   The first notice requirement applies to "licensed covered facilit[ies]." Cal. Health & Safety Code Ann. §123471(a). To fall under the definition of "licensed covered facility," a clinic must be a licensed primary care or specialty clinic or qualify as an intermittent clinic under California law. Ibid. (citing §§1204, 1206(h)). A licensed covered facility also must have the "primary purpose" of "providing fam- ily planning or pregnancy-related services." §123471(a). And it must satisfy at least two of the following six requirements:

   "(1) The facility offers obstetric ultrasounds, obstetric sonograms, or prenatal care to pregnant women.

   "(2) The facility provides, or offers counseling about, contraception or contraceptive methods.

   "(3) The facility offers pregnancy testing or pregnancy diagnosis.

   "(4) The facility advertises or solicits patrons with offers to provide prenatal sonography, pregnancy tests, or pregnancy options counseling.

   "(5) The facility offers abortion services.

   "(6) The facility has staff or volunteers who collect health information from clients." Ibid.

   The FACT Act exempts several categories of clinics that would otherwise qualify as licensed covered facilities. Clinics operated by the United States or a federal agency are excluded, as are clinics that are "enrolled as a Medi-Cal provider" and participate in "the Family Planning, Access, Care, and Treatment Program" (Family PACT program). §123471(c). To participate in the Family PACT program, a clinic must provide "the full scope of family planning . . . services specified for the program," Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code Ann. §24005(c) (West 2018), including sterilization and emergency contraceptive pills, §§24007(a)(1), (2).

   If a clinic is a licensed covered facility, the FACT Act requires it to disseminate a government-drafted notice on site. Cal. Health & Safety Code Ann. §123472(a)(1). The notice states that "California has public programs that provide immediate free or low-cost access to comprehensive family planning services (including all FDA-approved methods of contraception), prenatal care, and abortion for eligible women. To determine whether you qualify, contact the county social services office at [insert the telephone number]." Ibid. This notice must be posted in the waiting room, printed and distributed to all clients, or provided digitally at check-in. §123472(a)(2). The notice must be in English and any additional languages identified by state law. §123472(a). In some counties, that means the notice must be spelled out in 13 different languages. See State of Cal., Dept. of Health Care Services, Frequency of Threshold Language Speakers in the Medi-Cal Population by County for Jan. 2015, pp. 4-5
   (Sept. 2016) (identifying the required languages for Los Angeles County as English, Spanish, Armenian, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Farsi, Tagalog, Russian, Cambodian, Other Chinese, and Arabic).

   The stated purpose of the FACT Act, including its licensed notice requirement, is to "ensure that California residents make their personal reproductive health care decisions knowing their rights and the health care services available to them." 2015 Cal. Legis. Serv. Ch. 700, §2 (A. B. 775) (West) (Cal. Legis. Serv.). The Legislature posited that "thousands of women remain unaware of the public programs available to provide them with contraception, health education and counseling, family planning, prenatal care, abortion, or delivery." §1(b). Citing the "time sensitive" nature of pregnancy-related decisions, §1(c), the Legislature concluded that requiring licensed facilities to inform patients themselves would be "[t]he most effective" way to convey this information, §1(d).


   The second notice requirement in the FACT Act applies to "unlicensed covered facilit[ies]." §123471(b). To fall under the definition of "unlicensed covered facility," a facility must not be licensed by the State, not have a licensed medical provider on staff or under contract, and have the "primary purpose" of "providing pregnancy-related services." Ibid. An unlicensed covered facility also must satisfy at least two of the following four requirements:

   "(1) The facility offers obstetric ultrasounds, obstetric sonograms, or prenatal care to pregnant women.

   "(2) The facility offers pregnancy testing or pregnancy diagnosis.

   "(3) The facility advertises or solicits patrons with offers to provide prenatal sonography, pregnancy tests, or pregnancy options counseling.

   "(4) The facility has staff or volunteers who collect health information from clients." Ibid.

   Clinics operated by the United States and licensed primary care clinics enrolled in Medi-Cal and Family PACT are excluded. §123471(c).

   Unlicensed covered facilities must provide a government-drafted notice stating that "[t]his facility is not li- censed as a medical facility by the State of California and has no licensed medical provider who provides or directly supervises the provision of services." Cal. Health & Safety Code Ann. §123472(b)(1). This notice must be provided on site and in all advertising materials. §§123472(b)(2), (3). Onsite, the notice must be posted "conspicuously" at the entrance of the facility and in at least one waiting area. §123472(b)(2). It must be "at least 8.5 inches by 11 inches and written in no less than 48-point type." Ibid. In advertisements, the notice must be in the same size or larger font than the surrounding text, or otherwise set off in a way that draws attention to it. §123472(b)(3). Like the licensed notice, the unlicensed notice must be in English and any additional languages specified by state law. §123471(b). Its stated purpose is to ensure "that pregnant women in California
   know when they are getting medical care from licensed professionals." Cal. Legis. Serv., §1(e).

   B

   After the Governor of California signed the FACT Act, petitioners--a licensed pregnancy center, an unlicensed pregnancy center, and an organization composed of crisis pregnancy centers--filed this suit. Petitioners alleged that the licensed and unlicensed notices abridge the freedom of speech protected by the First Amendment. The District Court denied their motion for a preliminary injunction.

   The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed. National Institute of Family and Life Advocates v. Harris, 839 F. 3d 823, 845 (2016). After concluding that petitioners' challenge to the FACT Act was ripe,[1] id., at 833, the Ninth Circuit held that petitioners could not show a likelihood of success on the merits. It concluded that the licensed notice survives the "lower level of scrutiny" that applies to regulations of "professional speech." Id., at 833-842. And it concluded that the unlicensed notice satisfies any level of scrutiny. See id., at 843-844.

   We granted certiorari to review the Ninth Circuit's decision. 583 U. S. ___ (2017). We reverse with respect to both notice requirements.


   We first address the licensed notice.[2]

   A

   The First Amendment, applicable to the States through the Fourteenth Amendment, prohibits laws that abridge the freedom of speech. When enforcing this prohibition, our precedents distinguish between content-based and content-neutral regulations of speech. Content-based regulations "target speech based on its communicative content." Reed v. Town of Gilbert, 576 U. S. ___, ___ (2015) (slip op., at 6). As a general matter, such laws "are presumptively unconstitutional and may be justified only if the government proves that they are narrowly tailored to serve compelling state interests." Ibid. This stringent standard reflects the fundamental principle that governments have " `no power to restrict expression because of its message, its ideas, its subject matter, or its content.' " Ibid. (quoting Police Dept. of Chicago v. Mosley, 408 U. S. 92, 95 (1972)).

   The licensed notice is a content-based regulation of speech. By compelling individuals to speak a particular message, such notices "alte[r] the content of [their] speech." Riley v. National Federation of Blind of N. C., Inc., 487 U. S. 781, 795 (1988); accord, Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U. S. 622, 642 (1994); Miami Herald Publishing Co. v. Tornillo, 418 U. S. 241, 256 (1974). Here, for example, licensed clinics must provide a government-drafted script about the availability of state-sponsored services, as well as contact information for how to obtain them. One of those services is abortion--the very practice that petitioners are devoted to opposing. By requiring petitioners to inform women how they can obtain state-subsidized abortions--at the same time petitioners try to dissuade women from choosing that option--the licensed notice plainly "alters the content" of petitioners' speech. Riley, supra, at 795.

   B

   Although the licensed notice is content based, the Ninth Circuit did not apply strict scrutiny because it concluded that the notice regulates "professional speech." 839 F. 3d, at 839. Some Courts of Appeals have recognized "professional speech" as a separate category of speech that is subject to different rules. See, e.g., King v. Governors of New Jersey, 767 F. 3d 216, 232 (CA3 2014); Pickup v. Brown, 740 F. 3d 1208, 1227-1229 (CA9 2014); Moore-King v. County of Chesterfield, 708 F. 3d 560, 568-570 (CA4 2014). These courts define "professionals" as individuals who provide personalized services to clients and who are subject to "a generally applicable licensing and regulatory regime." Id., at 569; see also, King, supra, at 232; Pickup, supra, at 1230. "Professional speech" is then defined as any speech by these individuals that is based on "[their] expert knowledge and judgment," King, supra, at 232, or that is "within the confines of [the] professional relationship," Pickup, supra, at
   1228. So defined, these courts except professional speech from the rule that content-based regulations of speech are subject to strict scru- tiny. See King, supra, at 232; Pickup, supra, at 1053-1056; Moore-King, supra, at 569.

   But this Court has not recognized "professional speech" as a separate category of speech. Speech is not unpro- tected merely because it is uttered by "professionals." This Court has "been reluctant to mark off new categories of speech for diminished constitutional protection." Denver Area Ed. Telecommunications Consortium, Inc. v. FCC, 518 U. S. 727, 804 (1996) (Kennedy, J., concurring in part, concurring in judgment in part, and dissenting in part). And it has been especially reluctant to "exemp[t] a category of speech from the normal prohibition on content-based restrictions." United States v. Alvarez, 567 U. S. 709, 722 (2012) (plurality opinion). This Court's precedents do not permit governments to impose content-based restrictions on speech without " `persuasive evidence . . . of a long (if heretofore unrecognized) tradition' " to that effect. Ibid. (quoting Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Assn., 564 U. S. 786, 792 (2011)).

   This Court's precedents do not recognize such a tradition for a category called "professional speech." This Court has afforded less protection for professional speech in two circumstances--neither of which turned on the fact that professionals were speaking. First, our precedents have applied more deferential review to some laws that require professionals to disclose factual, noncontroversial information in their "commercial speech." See, e.g., Zauderer v. Office of Disciplinary Counsel of Supreme Court of Ohio, 471 U. S. 626, 651 (1985); Milavetz, Gallop & Milavetz, P. A. v. United States, 559 U. S. 229, 250 (2010); Ohralik v. Ohio State Bar Assn., 436 U. S. 447, 455-456 (1978). Second, under our precedents, States may regulate professional conduct, even though that conduct incidentally involves speech. See, e.g., id., at 456; Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey, 505 U. S. 833, 884 (1992) (opinion of O'Connor, Kennedy, and Souter, JJ.). But neither line of precedents is
   implicated here.


   This Court's precedents have applied a lower level of scrutiny to laws that compel disclosures in certain contexts. In Zauderer, for example, this Court upheld a rule requiring lawyers who advertised their services on a contingency-fee basis to disclose that clients might be re- quired to pay some fees and costs. 471 U. S., at 650-653. Noting that the disclosure requirement governed only "commercial advertising" and required the disclosure of "purely factual and uncontroversial information about the terms under which . . . services will be available," the Court explained that such requirements should be upheld unless they are "unjustified or unduly burdensome." Id., at 651.

   The Zauderer standard does not apply here. Most obviously, the licensed notice is not limited to "purely factual and uncontroversial information about the terms under which . . . services will be available." 471 U. S., at 651; see also Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Group of Boston, Inc., 515 U. S. 557, 573 (1995) (explaining that Zauderer does not apply outside of these circumstances). The notice in no way relates to the services that licensed clinics provide. Instead, it requires these clinics to disclose information about state-sponsored services--including abortion, anything but an "uncontroversial" topic. Accordingly, Zauderer has no application here.


   In addition to disclosure requirements under Zauderer, this Court has upheld regulations of professional conduct that incidentally burden speech. "[T]he First Amendment does not prevent restrictions directed at commerce or conduct from imposing incidental burdens on speech," Sorrell v. IMS Health Inc., 564 U. S. 552, 567 (2011), and professionals are no exception to this rule, see Ohralik, supra, at 456. Longstanding torts for professional malpractice, for example, "fall within the traditional purview of state regulation of professional conduct." NAACP v. Button, 371 U. S. 415, 438 (1963); but cf. id., at 439 ("[A] State may not, under the guise of prohibiting professional misconduct, ignore constitutional rights"). While drawing the line between speech and conduct can be difficult, this Court's precedents have long drawn it, see, e.g., Sorrell, supra, at 567; Giboney v. Empire Storage & Ice Co., 336 U. S. 490, 502 (1949), and the line is " `long familiar to the bar,' " United States v.
   Stevens, 559 U. S. 460, 468 (2010) (quoting Simon & Schuster, Inc. v. Members of N. Y State Crime Victims Bd., 502 U. S. 105, 127 (1991) (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment)).

   In Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey, for example, this Court upheld a law requiring physicians to obtain informed consent before they could perform an abortion. 505 U. S., at 884 (joint opinion of O'Connor, Kennedy, and Souter, JJ.). Pennsylvania law required physicians to inform their patients of "the nature of the procedure, the health risks of the abortion and childbirth, and the `probable gestational age of the unborn child.' " Id., at 881. The law also required physicians to inform patients of the availability of printed materials from the State, which provided information about the child and various forms of assistance. Ibid.

   The joint opinion in Casey rejected a free-speech challenge to this informed-consent requirement. Id., at 884. It described the Pennsylvania law as "a requirement that a doctor give a woman certain information as part of obtaining her consent to an abortion," which "for constitutional purposes, [was] no different from a requirement that a doctor give certain specific information about any medical procedure." Ibid. The joint opinion explained that the law regulated speech only "as part of the practice of medicine, subject to reasonable licensing and regulation by the State." Ibid. (emphasis added). Indeed, the requirement that a doctor obtain informed consent to perform an operation is "firmly entrenched in American tort law." Cruzan v. Director, Mo. Dept. of Health, 497 U. S. 261, 269 (1990); see, e.g., Schloendorff v. Society of N. Y. Hospital, 211 N. Y. 125, 129-130, 105 N. E. 92, 93 (1914) (Cardozo, J.) (explaining that "a surgeon who performs an operation without his patient's consent
   commits an assault").

   The licensed notice at issue here is not an informed-consent requirement or any other regulation of professional conduct. The notice does not facilitate informed consent to a medical procedure. In fact, it is not tied to a procedure at all. It applies to all interactions between a covered facility and its clients, regardless of whether a medical procedure is ever sought, offered, or performed. If a covered facility does provide medical procedures, the notice provides no information about the risks or benefits of those procedures. Tellingly, many facilities that provide the exact same services as covered facilities--such as general practice clinics, see §123471(a)--are not required to provide the licensed notice. The licensed notice regulates speech as speech.


   Outside of the two contexts discussed above--disclosures under Zauderer and professional conduct--this Court's precedents have long protected the First Amendment rights of professionals. For example, this Court has applied strict scrutiny to content-based laws that regulate the noncommercial speech of lawyers, see Reed, 576 U. S., at ___ (slip op., at 10) (discussing Button, supra, at 438); In re Primus, 436 U. S. 412, 432 (1978); professional fundraisers, see Riley, 487 U. S., at 798; and organizations that provided specialized advice about international law, see Holder v. Humanitarian Law Project, 561 U. S. 1, 27-28 (2010). And the Court emphasized that the lawyer's statements in Zauderer would have been "fully protected" if they were made in a context other than advertising. 471 U. S., at 637, n. 7. Moreover, this Court has stressed the danger of content-based regulations "in the fields of medicine and public health, where information can save lives." Sorrell, supra, at 566.

   The dangers associated with content-based regulations of speech are also present in the context of professional speech. As with other kinds of speech, regulating the content of professionals' speech "pose[s] the inherent risk that the Government seeks not to advance a legitimate regulatory goal, but to suppress unpopular ideas or information." Turner Broadcasting, 512 U. S., at 641. Take medicine, for example. "Doctors help patients make deeply personal decisions, and their candor is crucial." Wollschlaeger v. Governor of Florida, 848 F. 3d 1293, 1328 (CA11 2017) (en banc) (W. Pryor, J. concurring). Throughout history, governments have "manipulat[ed] the content of doctor-patient discourse" to increase state power and suppress minorities:

   "For example, during the Cultural Revolution, Chinese physicians were dispatched to the countryside to convince peasants to use contraception. In the 1930s, the Soviet government expedited completion of a construction project on the Siberian railroad by ordering doctors to both reject requests for medical leave from work and conceal this government order from their patients. In Nazi Germany, the Third Reich systematically violated the separation between state ideology and medical discourse. German physicians were taught that they owed a higher duty to the `health of the Volk' than to the health of individual patients. Recently, Nicolae Ceausescu's strategy to increase the Romanian birth rate included prohibitions against giving advice to patients about the use of birth control devices and disseminating information about the use of condoms as a means of preventing the transmission of AIDS." Berg, Toward a First Amendment Theory of Doctor-Patient Discourse and the Right To Receive Unbiased
   Medical Advice, 74 B. U. L. Rev. 201, 201-202 (1994) (footnotes omitted).

   Further, when the government polices the content of professional speech, it can fail to " `preserve an uninhibited marketplace of ideas in which truth will ultimately prevail.' " McCullen v. Coakley, 573 U. S. ___, ___-___ (2014) (slip op., at 8-9). Professionals might have a host of good-faith disagreements, both with each other and with the government, on many topics in their respective fields. Doctors and nurses might disagree about the ethics of assisted suicide or the benefits of medical marijuana; lawyers and marriage counselors might disagree about the prudence of prenuptial agreements or the wisdom of divorce; bankers and accountants might disagree about the amount of money that should be devoted to savings or the benefits of tax reform. "[T]he best test of truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the market," Abrams v. United States, 250 U. S. 616, 630 (1919) (Holmes, J., dissenting), and the people lose when the government is the one deciding
   which ideas should prevail.

   "Professional speech" is also a difficult category to define with precision. See Entertainment Merchants Assn., 564 U. S., at 791. As defined by the courts of appeals, the professional-speech doctrine would cover a wide array of individuals--doctors, lawyers, nurses, physical therapists, truck drivers, bartenders, barbers, and many others. See Smolla, Professional Speech and the First Amendment, 119 W. Va. L. Rev. 67, 68 (2016). One court of appeals has even applied it to fortune tellers. See Moore-King, 708 F. 3d, at 569. All that is required to make something a "profession," according to these courts, is that it involves personalized services and requires a professional license from the State. But that gives the States unfettered power to reduce a group's First Amendment rights by simply imposing a licensing requirement. States cannot choose the protection that speech receives under the First Amendment, as that would give them a powerful tool to impose "invidious discrimination of
   disfavored subjects." Cincinnati v. Discovery Network, Inc., 507 U. S. 410, 423-424, n. 19 (1993); see also Riley, 487 U. S., at 796 ("[S]tate labels cannot be dispositive of [the] degree of First Amendment protection" (citing Bigelow v. Virginia, 421 U. S. 809, 826 (1975)).

   C

   In sum, neither California nor the Ninth Circuit has identified a persuasive reason for treating professional speech as a unique category that is exempt from ordinary First Amendment principles. We do not foreclose the possibility that some such reason exists. We need not do so because the licensed notice cannot survive even intermediate scrutiny. California asserts a single interest to justify the licensed notice: providing low-income women with information about state-sponsored services. Assuming that this is a substantial state interest, the licensed notice is not sufficiently drawn to achieve it.

   If California's goal is to educate low-income women about the services it provides, then the licensed notice is "wildly underinclusive." Entertainment Merchants Assn., supra, at 802. The notice applies only to clinics that have a "primary purpose" of "providing family planning or pregnancy-related services" and that provide two of six categories of specific services. §123471(a). Other clinics that have another primary purpose, or that provide only one category of those services, also serve low-income women and could educate them about the State's services. According to the legislative record, California has "nearly 1,000 community clinics"--including "federally designated community health centers, migrant health centers, rural health centers, and frontier health centers"--that "serv[e] more than 5.6 million patients . . . annually through over 17 million patient encounters." App. 58. But most of those clinics are excluded from the licensed notice requirement without explanation. Such
   "[u]nderinclusive- ness raises serious doubts about whether the government is in fact pursuing the interest it invokes, rather than disfavoring a particular speaker or viewpoint." Entertainment Merchants Assn., 564 U. S., at 802.

   The FACT Act also excludes, without explanation, federal clinics and Family PACT providers from the licensed-notice requirement. California notes that those clinics can enroll women in California's programs themselves, but California's stated interest is informing women that these services exist in the first place. California has identified no evidence that the exempted clinics are more likely to provide this information than the covered clinics. In fact, the exempted clinics have long been able to enroll women in California's programs, but the FACT Act was premised on the notion that "thousands of women remain unaware of [them]." Cal. Legis. Serv., §1(b). If the goal is to maximize women's awareness of these programs, then it would seem that California would ensure that the places that can immediately enroll women also provide this information. The FACT Act's exemption for these clinics, which serve many women who are pregnant or could become pregnant in the future, demonstrates the
   disconnect between its stated purpose and its actual scope. Yet "[p]recision . . . must be the touchstone" when it comes to regulations of speech, which "so closely touc[h] our most precious freedoms." Button, 371 U. S., at 438.

   Further, California could inform low-income women about its services "without burdening a speaker with unwanted speech." Riley, 487 U. S., at 800. Most obvi- ously, it could inform the women itself with a public-information campaign. See ibid. (concluding that a compelled disclosure was unconstitutional because the government could "itself publish . . . the disclosure"). Califor- nia could even post the information on public property near crisis pregnancy centers. California argues that it has already tried an advertising campaign, and that many women who are eligible for publicly-funded healthcare have not enrolled. But California has identified no evidence to that effect. And regardless, a "tepid response" does not prove that an advertising campaign is not a sufficient alternative. United States v. Playboy Entertainment Group, Inc., 529 U. S. 803, 816 (2000). Here, for example, individuals might not have enrolled in California's services because they do not want them, or because
   California spent insufficient resources on the advertising campaign. Either way, California cannot co-opt the licensed facilities to deliver its message for it. "[T]he First Amendment does not permit the State to sacrifice speech for efficiency." Riley, supra, at 795; accord, Arizona Free Enterprise Club's Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett, 564 U. S. 721, 747 (2011).

   In short, petitioners are likely to succeed on the merits of their challenge to the licensed notice. Contrary to the suggestion in the dissent, post, at 3-4 (opinion of Breyer, J.), we do not question the legality of health and safety warnings long considered permissible, or purely factual and uncontroversial disclosures about commercial products.


   We next address the unlicensed notice. The parties dispute whether the unlicensed notice is subject to deferential review under Zauderer.[3] We need not decide whether the Zauderer standard applies to the unlicensed notice. Even under Zauderer, a disclosure requirement cannot be "unjustified or unduly burdensome." 471 U. S., at 651. Our precedents require disclosures to remedy a harm that is "potentially real not purely hypothetical," Ibanez v. Florida Dept. of Business and Professional Regulation, Bd. of Accountancy, 512 U. S. 136, 146 (1994), and to extend "no broader than reasonably necessary," In re R. M. J., 455 U. S. 191, 203 (1982); accord, Virginia Bd. of Pharmacy v. Virginia Citizens Consumer Council, Inc., 425 U. S. 748, 772, n. 24 (1976); Bates v. State Bar of Ariz., 433 U. S. 350, 384 (1977); cf. Zauderer, 471 U. S., at 649 (rejecting "broad prophylactic rules" in this area). Otherwise, they risk "chilling" protected speech." Id., at 651. Importantly, California has the burden
   to prove that the unlicensed notice is neither unjustified nor unduly burdensome. See Ibanez, 512 U. S., at 146. It has not met its burden.

   We need not decide what type of state interest is sufficient to sustain a disclosure requirement like the unlicensed notice. California has not demonstrated any justification for the unlicensed notice that is more than "purely hypothetical." Ibid. The only justification that the California Legislature put forward was ensuring that "pregnant women in California know when they are getting medical care from licensed professionals." 2015 Cal. Legis. Serv., §1(e). At oral argument, however, California denied that the justification for the FACT Act was that women "go into [crisis pregnancy centers] and they don't realize what they are." See Tr. of Oral Arg. at 44-45. Indeed, California points to nothing suggesting that pregnant women do not already know that the covered facilities are staffed by unlicensed medical professionals. The services that trigger the unlicensed notice--such as having "volunteers who collect health information from clients," "advertis[ing] . . . pregnancy options
   counseling," and offering over-the-counter "pregnancy testing," §123471(b)--do not require a medical license. And California already makes it a crime for individuals without a medical license to practice medicine. See Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Ann. §2052. At this preliminary stage of the litigation, we agree that petitioners are likely to prevail on the question whether California has proved a justification for the unlicensed notice.[4]

   Even if California had presented a nonhypothetical justification for the unlicensed notice, the FACT Act unduly burdens protected speech. The unlicensed notice imposes a government-scripted, speaker-based disclosure requirement that is wholly disconnected from California's informational interest. It requires covered facilities to post California's precise notice, no matter what the facilities say on site or in their advertisements. And it covers a curiously narrow subset of speakers. While the licensed notice applies to facilities that provide "family planning" services and "contraception or contraceptive methods," §123471(a), the California Legislature dropped these triggering conditions for the unlicensed notice. The unlicensed notice applies only to facilities that primarily provide "pregnancy-related" services. §123471(b). Thus, a facility that advertises and provides pregnancy tests is covered by the unlicensed notice, but a facility across the street that advertises and provides
   nonprescription contraceptives is excluded--even though the latter is no less likely to make women think it is licensed. This Court's precedents are deeply skeptical of laws that "distinguis[h] among different speakers, allowing speech by some but not others." Citizens United v. Federal Election Comm'n, 558 U. S. 310, 340 (2010). Speaker-based laws run the risk that "the State has left unburdened those speakers whose messages are in accord with its own views." Sorrell, 564 U. S., at 580.

   The application of the unlicensed notice to advertisements demonstrates just how burdensome it is. The notice applies to all "print and digital advertising materials" by an unlicensed covered facility. §123472(b). These materials must include a government-drafted statement that "[t]his facility is not licensed as a medical facility by the State of California and has no licensed medical provider who provides or directly supervises the provision of services." §123472(b)(1). An unlicensed facility must call attention to the notice, instead of its own message, by some method such as larger text or contrasting type or color. See §§123472(b)(2)-(3). This scripted language must be posted in English and as many other languages as California chooses to require. As California conceded at oral argument, a billboard for an unlicensed facility that says "Choose Life" would have to surround that two-word statement with a 29-word statement from the government, in as many as 13 different languages. In this
   way, the unlicensed notice drowns out the facility's own message. More likely, the "detail required" by the unlicensed notice "effectively rules out" the possibility of having such a billboard in the first place. Ibanez, supra, at 146.

   For all these reasons, the unlicensed notice does not satisfy Zauderer, assuming that standard applies. California has offered no justification that the notice plausibly furthers. It targets speakers, not speech, and imposes an unduly burdensome disclosure requirement that will chill their protected speech. Taking all these circumstances together, we conclude that the unlicensed notice is unjustified and unduly burdensome under Zauderer. We express no view on the legality of a similar disclosure requirement that is better supported or less burdensome.

   IV

   We hold that petitioners are likely to succeed on the merits of their claim that the FACT Act violates the First Amendment. We reverse the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.

   It is so ordered.
